it was gray on a black ground. It seemed to us to be a postscript at
the end of the letter and it said: ' Please, please, as you are a
gentleman, burn this letter, and be at the gate by ten o clock. Beneath
it were signed the initials L. L." 

"Have you got that slip?" 

"No, sir, it crumbled all to bits after we moved it." 

"Had Sir Charles received any other letters in the same writing?" 

"Well, sir, I took no particular notice of his letters. I should not
have noticed this one, only it happened to come alone." 

"And you have no idea who L. L. is?" 

"No, sir. No more than you have. But I expect if we could lay our hands
upon that lady we should know more about Sir Charles's death." 

"I cannot understand, Barrymore, how you came to conceal this important
information." 

"Well, sir, it was immediately after that our own trouble came to us.
And then again, sir, we were both of us very fond of Sir Charles, as we
well might be considering all that he has done for us. To rake this up
couldn't help our poor master, and it's well to go carefully when
there's a lady in the case. Even the best of us -- " 

"You thought it might injure his reputation?" 

"Well, sir, I thought no good could come of it. But now you have been
kind to us, and I feel as if it would be treating you unfairly not to
tell you all that I know about the matter." 

"Very good, Barrymore; you can go." When the butler had left us Sir
Henry turned to me. "Well, Watson, what do you think of this new
light?" 

"It seems to leave the darkness rather blacker than before." 

"So I think. But if we can only trace L. L. it should clear up the
whole business. We have gained that much. We know that there is someone
who has the facts if we can only find her. What do you think we should
do?" 

"Let Holmes know all about it at once. It will give him the clue for
which he has been seeking. I am much mistaken if it does not bring him
down." 

I went at once to my room and drew up my report of the morning's
conversation for Holmes. It was evident to me that he had been very
busy of late, for the notes which I had from Baker Street were few and
short, with no comments upon the information which I had supplied and
hardly any reference to my mission. No doubt his blackmailing case is
absorbing all his faculties. And yet this new factor must surely arrest
his attention and renew his interest. I wish that he were here. 

October 17th. All day to-day the rain poured down, rustling on the ivy
and dripping from the eaves. I thought of the convict out upon the
bleak, cold, shelterless moor. Poor devil! Whatever his crimes, he has
