
"The company had come to a halt, more sober men, as you may guess, than
when they started. The most of them would by no means advance, but
three of them, the boldest, or it may be the most drunken, rode forward
down the goyal. Now, it opened into a broad space in which stood two of
those great stones, still to be seen there, which were set by certain
forgotten peoples in the days of old. The moon was shining bright upon
the clearing, and there in the centre lay the unhappy maid where she
had fallen, dead of fear and of fatigue. But it was not the sight of
her body, nor yet was it that of the body of Hugo Baskerville lying
near her, which raised the hair upon the heads of these three daredevil
roysterers, but it was that, standing over Hugo, and plucking at his
throat, there stood a foul thing, a great, black beast, shaped like a
hound, yet larger than any hound that ever mortal eye has rested upon.
And even as they looked the thing tore the throat out of Hugo
Baskerville, on which, as it turned its blazing eyes and dripping jaws
upon them, the three shrieked with fear and rode for dear life, still
screaming, across the moor. One, it is said, died that very night of
what he had seen, and the other twain were but broken men for the rest
of their days. 

"Such is the tale, my sons, of the coming of the hound which is said to
have plagued the family so sorely ever since. If I have set it down it
is because that which is clearly known hath less terror than that which
is but hinted at and guessed. Nor can it be denied that many of the
family have been unhappy in their deaths, which have been sudden,
bloody, and mysterious. Yet may we shelter ourselves in the infinite
goodness of Providence, which would not forever punish the innocent
beyond that third or fourth generation which is threatened in Holy
Writ. To that Providence, my sons, I hereby commend you, and I counsel
you by way of caution to forbear from crossing the moor in those dark
hours when the powers of evil are exalted. 

"[ This from Hugo Baskerville to his sons Rodger and John, with
instructions that they say nothing thereof to their sister Elizabeth.
]" 

When Dr. Mortimer had finished reading this singular narrative he
pushed his spectacles up on his forehead and stared across at Mr.
Sherlock Holmes. The latter yawned and tossed the end of his cigarette
into the fire. 

"Well?" said he. 

"Do you not find it interesting?" 

"To a collector of fairy tales." 

Dr. Mortimer drew a folded newspaper out of his pocket. 

"Now, Mr. Holmes, we will give you something a little more recent. This
is the Devon County Chronicle of May 14th of this year. It is a short
account of the facts elicited at the death of Sir Charles Baskerville
which occurred a few days before that date." 

My friend leaned a little forward and his expression became intent. Our
visitor readjusted his glasses and began: 

"The recent sudden death of Sir Charles Baskerville, whose name has
been mentioned as the probable Liberal candidate for Mid-Devon at the
