"Nothing," said he, throwing it down. "It is a blank half-sheet of
paper, without even a water-mark upon it. I think we have drawn as much
as we can from this curious letter; and now, Sir Henry, has anything
else of interest happened to you since you have been in London?" 

"Why, no, Mr. Holmes. I think not." 

"You have not observed anyone follow or watch you?" 

"I seem to have walked right into the thick of a dime novel," said our
visitor. "Why in thunder should anyone follow or watch me?" 

"We are coming to that. You have nothing else to report to us before we
go into this matter?" 

"Well, it depends upon what you think worth reporting." 

"I think anything out of the ordinary routine of life well worth
reporting." 

Sir Henry smiled. 

"I don't know much of British life yet, for I have spent nearly all my
time in the States and in Canada. But I hope that to lose one of your
boots is not part of the ordinary routine of life over here." 

"You have lost one of your boots?" 

"My dear sir," cried Dr. Mortimer, "it is only mislaid. You will find
it when you return to the hotel. What is the use of troubling Mr.
Holmes with trifles of this kind?" 

"Well, he asked me for anything outside the ordinary routine." 

"Exactly," said Holmes, "however foolish the incident may seem. You
have lost one of your boots, you say?" 

"Well, mislaid it, anyhow. I put them both outside my door last night,
and there was only one in the morning. I could get no sense out of the
chap who cleans them. The worst of it is that I only bought the pair
last night in the Strand, and I have never had them on." 

"If you have never worn them, why did you put them out to be cleaned?" 

"They were tan boots and had never been varnished. That was why I put
them out." 

"Then I understand that on your arrival in London yesterday you went
out at once and bought a pair of boots?" 

"I did a good deal of shopping. Dr. Mortimer here went round with me.
You see, if I am to be squire down there I must dress the part, and it
may be that I have got a little careless in my ways out West. Among
other things I bought these brown boots -- gave six dollars for them --
and had one stolen before ever I had them on my feet." 

"It seems a singularly useless thing to steal," said Sherlock Holmes.
"I confess that I share Dr. Mortimer's belief that it will not be long
before the missing boot is found." 

