false one. A clever man upon so delicate an errand has no use for a
beard save to conceal his features. Come in here, Watson!" 

He turned into one of the district messenger offices, where he was
warmly greeted by the manager. 

"Ah, Wilson, I see you have not forgotten the little case in which I
had the good fortune to help you?" 

"No, sir, indeed I have not. You saved my good name, and perhaps my
life." 

"My dear fellow, you exaggerate. I have some recollection, Wilson, that
you had among your boys a lad named Cartwright, who showed some ability
during the investigation." 

"Yes, sir, he is still with us." 

"Could you ring him up? -- thank you! And I should be glad to have
change of this five-pound note." 

A lad of fourteen, with a bright, keen face, had obeyed the summons of
the manager. He stood now gazing with great reverence at the famous
detective. 

"Let me have the Hotel Directory," said Holmes. "Thank you! Now,
Cartwright, there are the names of twenty-three hotels here, all in the
immediate neighbourhood of Charing Cross. Do you see?" 

"Yes, sir." 

"You will visit each of these in turn." 

"Yes, sir." 

"You will begin in each case by giving the outside porter one shilling.
Here are twenty-three shillings." 

"Yes, sir." 

"You will tell him that you want to see the waste-paper of yesterday.
You will say that an important telegram has miscarried and that you are
looking for it. You understand?" 

"Yes, sir." 

"But what you are really looking for is the centre page of the Times
with some holes cut in it with scissors. Here is a copy of the Times.
It is this page. You could easily recognize it, could you not?" 

"Yes, sir." 

"In each case the outside porter will send for the hall porter, to whom
also you will give a shilling. Here are twenty-three shillings. You
will then learn in possibly twenty cases out of the twenty-three that
the waste of the day before has been burned or removed. In the three
other cases you will be shown a heap of paper and you will look for
this page of the Times among it. The odds are enormously against your
finding it. There are ten shillings over in case of emergencies. Let me
have a report by wire at Baker Street before evening. And now, Watson,
