yourself in a very false position by not making an absolutely clean
breast of all that you know. If I have to call in the aid of the police
you will find how seriously you are compromised. If your position is
innocent, why did you in the first instance deny having written to Sir
Charles upon that date?" 

"Because I feared that some false conclusion might be drawn from it and
that I might find myself involved in a scandal." 

"And why were you so pressing that Sir Charles should destroy your
letter?" 

"If you have read the letter you will know." 

"I did not say that I had read all the letter." 

"You quoted some of it." 

"I quoted the postscript. The letter had, as I said, been burned and it
was not all legible. I ask you once again why it was that you were so
pressing that Sir Charles should destroy this letter which he received
on the day of his death." 

"The matter is a very private one." 

"The more reason why you should avoid a public investigation." 

"I will tell you, then. If you have heard anything of my unhappy
history you will know that I made a rash marriage and had reason to
regret it." 

"I have heard so much." 

"My life has been one incessant persecution from a husband whom I
abhor. The law is upon his side, and every day I am faced by the
possibility that he may force me to live with him. At the time that I
wrote this letter to Sir Charles I had learned that there was a
prospect of my regaining my freedom if certain expenses could be met.
It meant everything to me -- peace of mind, happiness, self-respect --
everything. I knew Sir Charles's generosity, and I thought that if he
heard the story from my own lips he would help me." 

"Then how is it that you did not go?" 

"Because I received help in the interval from another source." 

"Why then, did you not write to Sir Charles and explain this?" 

"So I should have done had I not seen his death in the paper next
morning." 

The woman's story hung coherently together, and all my questions were
unable to shake it. I could only check it by finding if she had,
indeed, instituted divorce proceedings against her husband at or about
the time of the tragedy. 

It was unlikely that she would dare to say that she had not been to
Baskerville Hall if she really had been, for a trap would be necessary
to take her there, and could not have returned to Coombe Tracey until
the early hours of the morning. Such an excursion could not be kept
