
"That depends on whether you are going on the moor," said I. 

"Yes, I am." 

"Well, you know what my instructions are. I am sorry to intrude, but
you heard how earnestly Holmes insisted that I should not leave you,
and especially that you should not go alone upon the moor." 

Sir Henry put his hand upon my shoulder with a pleasant smile. 

"My dear fellow," said he, "Holmes, with all his wisdom, did not
foresee some things which have happened since I have been on the moor.
You understand me? I am sure that you are the last man in the world who
would wish to be a spoil-sport. I must go out alone." 

It put me in a most awkward position. I was at a loss what to say or
what to do, and before I had made up my mind he picked up his cane and
was gone. 

But when I came to think the matter over my conscience reproached me
bitterly for having on any pretext allowed him to go out of my sight. I
imagined what my feelings would be if I had to return to you and to
confess that some misfortune had occurred through my disregard for your
instructions. I assure you my cheeks flushed at the very thought. It
might not even now be too late to overtake him, so I set off at once in
the direction of Merripit House. 

I hurried along the road at the top of my speed without seeing anything
of Sir Henry, until I came to the point where the moor path branches
off. There, fearing that perhaps I had come in the wrong direction
after all, I mounted a hill from which I could command a view -- the
same hill which is cut into the dark quarry. Thence I saw him at once.
He was on the moor path about a quarter of a mile off, and a lady was
by his side who could only be Miss Stapleton. It was clear that there
was already an understanding between them and that they had met by
appointment. They were walking slowly along in deep conversation, and I
saw her making quick little movements of her hands as if she were very
earnest in what she was saying, while he listened intently, and once or
twice shook his head in strong dissent. I stood among the rocks
watching them, very much puzzled as to what I should do next. To follow
them and break into their intimate conversation seemed to be an
outrage, and yet my clear duty was never for an instant to let him out
of my sight. To act the spy upon a friend was a hateful task. Still, I
could see no better course than to observe him from the hill, and to
clear my conscience by confessing to him afterwards what I had done. It
is true that if any sudden danger had threatened him I was too far away
to be of use, and yet I am sure that you will agree with me that the
position was very difficult, and that there was nothing more which I
could do. 

Our friend, Sir Henry, and the lady had halted on the path and were
standing deeply absorbed in their conversation, when I was suddenly
aware that I was not the only witness of their interview. A wisp of
green floating in the air caught my eye, and another glance showed me
that it was carried on a stick by a man who was moving among the broken
ground. It was Stapleton with his butterfly-net. He was very much
closer to the pair than I was, and he appeared to be moving in their
direction. At this instant Sir Henry suddenly drew Miss Stapleton to
his side. His arm was round her, but it seemed to me that she was
