so that, although he would walk in his own grounds, nothing would
induce him to go out upon the moor at night. Incredible as it may
appear to you, Mr. Holmes, he was honestly convinced that a dreadful
fate overhung his family, and certainly the records which he was able
to give of his ancestors were not encouraging. The idea of some ghastly
presence constantly haunted him, and on more than one occasion he has
asked me whether I had on my medical journeys at night ever seen any
strange creature or heard the baying of a hound. The latter question he
put to me several times, and always with a voice which vibrated with
excitement. 

"I can well remember driving up to his house in the evening some three
weeks before the fatal event. He chanced to be at his hall door. I had
descended from my gig and was standing in front of him, when I saw his
eyes fix themselves over my shoulder and stare past me with an
expression of the most dreadful horror. I whisked round and had just
time to catch a glimpse of something which I took to be a large black
calf passing at the head of the drive. So excited and alarmed was he
that I was compelled to go down to the spot where the animal had been
and look around for it. It was gone, however, and the incident appeared
to make the worst impression upon his mind. I stayed with him all the
evening, and it was on that occasion, to explain the emotion which he
had shown, that he confided to my keeping that narrative which I read
to you when first I came. I mention this small episode because it
assumes some importance in view of the tragedy which followed, but I
was convinced at the time that the matter was entirely trivial and that
his excitement had no justification. 

"It was at my advice that Sir Charles was about to go to London. His
heart was, I knew, affected, and the constant anxiety in which he
lived, however chimerical the cause of it might be, was evidently
having a serious effect upon his health. I thought that a few months
among the distractions of town would send him back a new man. Mr.
Stapleton, a mutual friend who was much concerned at his state of
health, was of the same opinion. At the last instant came this terrible
catastrophe. 

"On the night of Sir Charles's death Barrymore the butler who made the
discovery, sent Perkins the groom on horseback to me, and as I was
sitting up late I was able to reach Baskerville Hall within an hour of
the event. I checked and corroborated all the facts which were
mentioned at the inquest. I followed the footsteps down the yew alley,
I saw the spot at the moor-gate where he seemed to have waited, I
remarked the change in the shape of the prints after that point, I
noted that there were no other footsteps save those of Barrymore on the
soft gravel, and finally I carefully examined the body, which had not
been touched until my arrival. Sir Charles lay on his face, his arms
out, his fingers dug into the ground, and his features convulsed with
some strong emotion to such an extent that I could hardly have sworn to
his identity. There was certainly no physical injury of any kind. But
one false statement was made by Barrymore at the inquest. He said that
there were no traces upon the ground round the body. He did not observe
any. But I did -- some little distance off, but fresh and clear." 

"Footprints?" 

"Footprints." 

"A man's or a woman's?" 

