"What is this, Perkins?" asked Dr. Mortimer. 

Our driver half turned in his seat. 

"There's a convict escaped from Princetown, sir. He's been out three
days now, and the warders watch every road and every station, but
they've had no sight of him yet. The farmers about here don't like it,
sir, and that's a fact." 

"Well, I understand that they get five pounds if they can give
information." 

"Yes, sir, but the chance of five pounds is but a poor thing compared
to the chance of having your throat cut. You see, it isn't like any
ordinary convict. This is a man that would stick at nothing." 

"Who is he, then?" 

"It is Selden, the Notting Hill murderer." 

I remembered the case well, for it was one in which Holmes had taken an
interest on account of the peculiar ferocity of the crime and the
wanton brutality which had marked all the actions of the assassin. The
commutation of his death sentence had been due to some doubts as to his
complete sanity, so atrocious was his conduct. Our wagonette had topped
a rise and in front of us rose the huge expanse of the moor, mottled
with gnarled and craggy cairns and tors. A cold wind swept down from it
and set us shivering. Somewhere there, on that desolate plain, was
lurking this fiendish man, hiding in a burrow like a wild beast, his
heart full of malignancy against the whole race which had cast him out.
It needed but this to complete the grim suggestiveness of the barren
waste, the chilling wind, and the darkling sky. Even Baskerville fell
silent and pulled his overcoat more closely around him. 

We had left the fertile country behind and beneath us. We looked back
on it now, the slanting rays of a low sun turning the streams to
threads of gold and glowing on the red earth new turned by the plough
and the broad tangle of the woodlands. The road in front of us grew
bleaker and wilder over huge russet and olive slopes, sprinkled with
giant boulders. Now and then we passed a moorland cottage, walled and
roofed with stone, with no creeper to break its harsh outline. Suddenly
we looked down into a cuplike depression, patched with stunted oaks and
firs which had been twisted and bent by the fury of years of storm. Two
high, narrow towers rose over the trees. The driver pointed with his
whip. 

"Baskerville Hall," said he. 

Its master had risen and was staring with flushed cheeks and shining
eyes. A few minutes later we had reached the lodge-gates, a maze of
fantastic tracery in wrought iron, with weather-bitten pillars on
either side, blotched with lichens, and surmounted by the boars' heads
of the Baskervilles. The lodge was a ruin of black granite and bared
ribs of rafters, but facing it was a new building, half constructed,
the first fruit of Sir Charles's South African gold. 

Through the gateway we passed into the avenue, where the wheels were
again hushed amid the leaves, and the old trees shot their branches in
a sombre tunnel over our heads. Baskerville shuddered as he looked up
the long, dark drive to where the house glimmered like a ghost at the
