he has many a time regretted it since. He was once a schoolmaster in
the north of England. Now, there is no one more easy to trace than a
schoolmaster. There are scholastic agencies by which one may identify
any man who has been in the profession. A little investigation showed
me that a school had come to grief under atrocious circumstances, and
that the man who had owned it -- the name was different -- had
disappeared with his wife. The descriptions agreed. When I learned that
the missing man was devoted to entomology the identification was
complete." 

The darkness was rising, but much was still hidden by the shadows. 

"If this woman is in truth his wife, where does Mrs. Laura Lyons come
in?" I asked. 

"That is one of the points upon which your own researches have shed a
light. Your interview with the lady has cleared the situation very
much. I did not know about a projected divorce between herself and her
husband. In that case, regarding Stapleton as an unmarried man, she
counted no doubt upon becoming his wife." 

"And when she is undeceived?" 

"Why, then we may find the lady of service. It must be our first duty
to see her -- both of us -- to-morrow. Don't you think, Watson, that
you are away from your charge rather long? Your place should be at
Baskerville Hall." 

The last red streaks had faded away in the west and night had settled
upon the moor. A few faint stars were gleaming in a violet sky. 

"One last question, Holmes," I said as I rose. "Surely there is no need
of secrecy between you and me. What is the meaning of it all? What is
he after?" 

Holmes's voice sank as he answered: 

"It is murder, Watson -- refined, cold-blooded, deliberate murder. Do
not ask me for particulars. My nets are closing upon him, even as his
are upon Sir Henry, and with your help he is already almost at my
mercy. There is but one danger which can threaten us. It is that he
should strike before we are ready to do so. Another day -- two at the
most -- and I have my case complete, but until then guard your charge
as closely as ever a fond mother watched her ailing child. Your mission
to-day has justified itself, and yet I could almost wish that you had
not left his side. Hark!" 

A terrible scream -- a prolonged yell of horror and anguish burst out
of the silence of the moor. That frightful cry turned the blood to ice
in my veins. 

"Oh, my God!" I gasped. "What is it? What does it mean?" 

Holmes had sprung to his feet, and I saw his dark, athletic outline at
the door of the hut, his shoulders stooping, his head thrust forward,
his face peering into the darkness. 

"Hush!" he whispered. "Hush!" 

The cry had been loud on account of its vehemence, but it had pealed
