associated with the grim legend of the Baskervilles, all these things
tinged my thoughts with sadness. Then on the top of these more or less
vague impressions there had come the definite and distinct warning of
Miss Stapleton, delivered with such intense earnestness that I could
not doubt that some grave and deep reason lay behind it. I resisted all
pressure to stay for lunch, and I set off at once upon my return
journey, taking the grass-grown path by which we had come. 

It seems, however, that there must have been some short cut for those
who knew it, for before I had reached the road I was astounded to see
Miss Stapleton sitting upon a rock by the side of the track. Her face
was beautifully flushed with her exertions and she held her hand to her
side. 

"I have run all the way in order to cut you off, Dr. Watson," said she.
"I had not even time to put on my hat. I must not stop, or my brother
may miss me. I wanted to say to you how sorry I am about the stupid
mistake I made in thinking that you were Sir Henry. Please forget the
words I said, which have no application whatever to you." 

"But I can't forget them, Miss Stapleton," said I. "I am Sir Henry's
friend, and his welfare is a very close concern of mine. Tell me why it
was that you were so eager that Sir Henry should return to London." 

"A woman's whim, Dr. Watson. When you know me better you will
understand that I cannot always give reasons for what I say or do." 

"No, no. I remember the thrill in your voice. I remember the look in
your eyes. Please, please, be frank with me, Miss Stapleton, for ever
since I have been here I have been conscious of shadows all round me.
Life has become like that great Grimpen Mire, with little green patches
everywhere into which one may sink and with no guide to point the
track. Tell me then what it was that you meant, and I will promise to
convey your warning to Sir Henry." 

An expression of irresolution passed for an instant over her face, but
her eyes had hardened again when she answered me. 

"You make too much of it, Dr. Watson," said she. "My brother and I were
very much shocked by the death of Sir Charles. We knew him very
intimately, for his favourite walk was over the moor to our house. He
was deeply impressed with the curse which hung over the family, and
when this tragedy came I naturally felt that there must be some grounds
for the fears which he had expressed. I was distressed therefore when
another member of the family came down to live here, and I felt that he
should be warned of the danger which he will run. That was all which I
intended to convey. 

"But what is the danger?" 

"You know the story of the hound?" 

"I do not believe in such nonsense." 

"But I do. If you have any influence with Sir Henry, take him away from
a place which has always been fatal to his family. The world is wide.
Why should he wish to live at the place of danger?" 

"Because it is the place of danger. That is Sir Henry's nature. I fear
that unless you can give me some more definite information than this it
