think that we cannot employ our time better than by calling upon your
acquaintance, Mrs. Laura Lyons." 

His plan of campaign was beginning to be evident. He would use the
baronet in order to convince the Stapletons that we were really gone,
while we should actually return at the instant when we were likely to
be needed. That telegram from London, if mentioned by Sir Henry to the
Stapletons, must remove the last suspicions from their minds. Already I
seemed to see our nets drawing closer around that leanjawed pike. 

Mrs. Laura Lyons was in her office, and Sherlock Holmes opened his
interview with a frankness and directness which considerably amazed
her. 

"I am investigating the circumstances which attended the death of the
late Sir Charles Baskerville," said he. "My friend here, Dr. Watson,
has informed me of what you have communicated, and also of what you
have withheld in connection with that matter." 

"What have I withheld?" she asked defiantly. 

"You have confessed that you asked Sir Charles to be at the gate at ten
o'clock. We know that that was the place and hour of his death. You
have withheld what the connection is between these events." 

"There is no connection." 

"In that case the coincidence must indeed be an extraordinary one. But
I think that we shall succeed in establishing a connection, after all.
I wish to be perfectly frank with you, Mrs. Lyons. We regard this case
as one of murder, and the evidence may implicate not only your friend
Mr. Stapleton but his wife as well." 

The lady sprang from her chair. 

"His wife!" she cried. 

"The fact is no longer a secret. The person who has passed for his
sister is really his wife." 

Mrs. Lyons had resumed her seat. Her hands were grasping the arms of
her chair, and I saw that the pink nails had turned white with the
pressure of her grip. 

"His wife!" she said again. "His wife! He is not a married man." 

Sherlock Holmes shrugged his shoulders. 

"Prove it to me! Prove it to me! And if you can do so -- !" The fierce
flash of her eyes said more than any words. 

"I have come prepared to do so," said Holmes, drawing several papers
from his pocket. "Here is a photograph of the couple taken in York four
years ago. It is indorsed "Mr. and Mrs. Vandeleur," but you will have
no difficulty in recognizing him, and her also, if you know her by
sight. Here are three written descriptions by trustworthy witnesses of
Mr. and Mrs. Vandeleur, who at that time kept St. Oliver's private
school. Read them and see if you can doubt the identity of these
people." 

