be that you are not yourself luminous, but you are a conductor of
light. Some people without possessing genius have a remarkable power of
stimulating it. I confess, my dear fellow, that I am very much in your
debt." 

He had never said as much before, and I must admit that his words gave
me keen pleasure, for I had often been piqued by his indifference to my
admiration and to the attempts which I had made to give publicity to
his methods. I was proud, too, to think that I had so far mastered his
system as to apply it in a way which earned his approval. He now took
the stick from my hands and examined it for a few minutes with his
naked eyes. Then with an expression of interest he laid down his
cigarette, and carrying the cane to the window, he looked over it again
with a convex lens. 

"Interesting, though elementary," said he as he returned to his
favourite corner of the settee. "There are certainly one or two
indications upon the stick. It gives us the basis for several
deductions." 

"Has anything escaped me?" I asked with some self-importance. "I trust
that there is nothing of consequence which I have overlooked?" 

"I am afraid, my dear Watson, that most of your conclusions were
erroneous. When I said that you stimulated me I meant, to be frank,
that in noting your fallacies I was occasionally guided towards the
truth. Not that you are entirely wrong in this instance. The man is
certainly a country practitioner. And he walks a good deal." 

"Then I was right." 

"To that extent." 

"But that was all." 

"No, no, my dear Watson, not all -- by no means all. I would suggest,
for example, that a presentation to a doctor is more likely to come
from a hospital than from a hunt, and that when the initials "C.C." are
placed before that hospital the words "Charing Cross" very naturally
suggest themselves." 

"You may be right." 

"The probability lies in that direction. And if we take this as a
working hypothesis we have a fresh basis from which to start our
construction of this unknown visitor." 

"Well, then, supposing that "C.C.H." does stand for "Charing Cross
Hospital," what further inferences may we draw?" 

"Do none suggest themselves? You know my methods. Apply them!" 

"I can only think of the obvious conclusion that the man has practised
in town before going to the country." 

"I think that we might venture a little farther than this. Look at it
in this light. On what occasion would it be most probable that such a
presentation would be made? When would his friends unite to give him a
pledge of their good will? Obviously at the moment when Dr. Mortimer
withdrew from the service of the hospital in order to start in practice
