far taller than that of Stapleton, far thinner than that of Frankland.
Barrymore it might possibly have been, but we had left him behind us,
and I am certain that he could not have followed us. A stranger then is
still dogging us, just as a stranger dogged us in London. We have never
shaken him off. If I could lay my hands upon that man, then at last we
might find ourselves at the end of all our difficulties. To this one
purpose I must now devote all my energies. 

My first impulse was to tell Sir Henry all my plans. My second and
wisest one is to play my own game and speak as little as possible to
anyone. He is silent and distrait. His nerves have been strangely
shaken by that sound upon the moor. I will say nothing to add to his
anxieties, but I will take my own steps to attain my own end. 

We had a small scene this morning after breakfast. Barrymore asked
leave to speak with Sir Henry, and they were closeted in his study some
little time. Sitting in the billiard-room I more than once heard the
sound of voices raised, and I had a pretty good idea what the point was
which was under discussion. After a time the baronet opened his door
and called for me. 

"Barrymore considers that he has a grievance," he said. "He thinks that
it was unfair on our part to hunt his brother-in-law down when he, of
his own free will, had told us the secret." 

The butler was standing very pale but very collected before us. 

"I may have spoken too warmly, sir," said he, "and if I have, I am sure
that I beg your pardon. At the same time, I was very much surprised
when I heard you two gentlemen come back this morning and learned that
you had been chasing Selden. The poor fellow has enough to fight
against without my putting more upon his track." 

"If you had told us of your own free will it would have been a
different thing," said the baronet, "you only told us, or rather your
wife only told us, when it was forced from you and you could not help
yourself." 

"I didn't think you would have taken advantage of it, Sir Henry --
indeed I didn't." 

"The man is a public danger. There are lonely houses scattered over the
moor, and he is a fellow who would stick at nothing. You only want to
get a glimpse of his face to see that. Look at Mr. Stapleton's house,
for example, with no one but himself to defend it. There's no safety
for anyone until he is under lock and key." 

"He'll break into no house, sir. I give you my solemn word upon that.
But he will never trouble anyone in this country again. I assure you,
Sir Henry, that in a very few days the necessary arrangements will have
been made and he will be on his way to South America. For God's sake,
sir, I beg of you not to let the police know that he is still on the
moor. They have given up the chase there, and he can lie quiet until
the ship is ready for him. You can't tell on him without getting my
wife and me into trouble. I beg you, sir, to say nothing to the
police." 

"What do you say, Watson?" 

I shrugged my shoulders. "If he were safely out of the country it would
