"That is true." 

"Did Barrymore profit at all by Sir Charles's will?" asked Holmes. 

"He and his wife had five hundred pounds each." 

"Ha! Did they know that they would receive this?" 

"Yes; Sir Charles was very fond of talking about the provisions of his
will." 

"That is very interesting." 

"I hope," said Dr. Mortimer, "that you do not look with suspicious eyes
upon everyone who received a legacy from Sir Charles, for I also had a
thousand pounds left to me." 

"Indeed! And anyone else?" 

"There were many insignificant sums to individuals, and a large number
of public charities. The residue all went to Sir Henry." 

"And how much was the residue?" 

"Seven hundred and forty thousand pounds." 

Holmes raised his eyebrows in surprise. "I had no idea that so gigantic
a sum was involved," said he. 

"Sir Charles had the reputation of being rich, but we did not know how
very rich he was until we came to examine his securities. The total
value of the estate was close on to a million." 

"Dear me! It is a stake for which a man might well play a desperate
game. And one more question, Dr. Mortimer. Supposing that anything
happened to our young friend here -- you will forgive the unpleasant
hypothesis! -- who would inherit the estate?" 

"Since Rodger Baskerville, Sir Charles's younger brother died
unmarried, the estate would descend to the Desmonds, who are distant
cousins. James Desmond is an elderly clergyman in Westmoreland." 

"Thank you. These details are all of great interest. Have you met Mr.
James Desmond?" 

"Yes; he once came down to visit Sir Charles. He is a man of venerable
appearance and of saintly life. I remember that he refused to accept
any settlement from Sir Charles, though he pressed it upon him." 

"And this man of simple tastes would be the heir to Sir Charles's
thousands." 

"He would be the heir to the estate because that is entailed. He would
also be the heir to the money unless it were willed otherwise by the
present owner, who can, of course, do what he likes with it." 

"And have you made your will, Sir Henry?" 

"No, Mr. Holmes, I have not. I've had no time, for it was only
yesterday that I learned how matters stood. But in any case I feel that
