Henry, and that I need no help of any kind." 

"Excellent!" said Stapleton. "You are perfectly right to be wary and
discreet. I am justly reproved for what I feel was an unjustifiable
intrusion, and I promise you that I will not mention the matter again." 

We had come to a point where a narrow grassy path struck off from the
road and wound away across the moor. A steep, boulder-sprinkled hill
lay upon the right which had in bygone days been cut into a granite
quarry. The face which was turned towards us formed a dark cliff, with
ferns and brambles growing in its niches. From over a distant rise
there floated a gray plume of smoke. 

"A moderate walk along this moor-path brings us to Merripit House,"
said he. "Perhaps you will spare an hour that I may have the pleasure
of introducing you to my sister." 

My first thought was that I should be by Sir Henry's side. But then I
remembered the pile of papers and bills with which his study table was
littered. It was certain that I could not help with those. And Holmes
had expressly said that I should study the neighbours upon the moor. I
accepted Stapleton's invitation, and we turned together down the path. 

"It is a wonderful place, the moor," said he, looking round over the
undulating downs, long green rollers, with crests of jagged granite
foaming up into fantastic surges. "You never tire of the moor. You
cannot think the wonderful secrets which it contains. It is so vast,
and so barren, and so mysterious." 

"You know it well, then?" 

"I have only been here two years. The residents would call me a
newcomer. We came shortly after Sir Charles settled. But my tastes led
me to explore every part of the country round, and I should think that
there are few men who know it better than I do." 

"Is it hard to know?" 

"Very hard. You see, for example, this great plain to the north here
with the queer hills breaking out of it. Do you observe anything
remarkable about that?" 

"It would be a rare place for a gallop." 

"You would naturally think so and the thought has cost several their
lives before now. You notice those bright green spots scattered thickly
over it?" 

"Yes, they seem more fertile than the rest." 

Stapleton laughed. 

"That is the great Grimpen Mire," said he. "A false step yonder means
death to man or beast. Only yesterday I saw one of the moor ponies
wander into it. He never came out. I saw his head for quite a long time
craning out of the bog-hole, but it sucked him down at last. Even in
dry seasons it is a danger to cross it, but after these autumn rains it
is an awful place. And yet I can find my way to the very heart of it
and return alive. By George, there is another of those miserable
ponies!" 
