than to anyone else. But in any case it was a blow to him and it would
take him some time before he could prepare himself to meet it. He would
withdraw all opposition upon his part if I would promise for three
months to let the matter rest and to be content with cultivating the
lady's friendship during that time without claiming her love. This I
promised, and so the matter rests." 

So there is one of our small mysteries cleared up. It is something to
have touched bottom anywhere in this bog in which we are floundering.
We know now why Stapleton looked with disfavour upon his sister's
suitor -- even when that suitor was so eligible a one as Sir Henry. And
now I pass on to another thread which I have extricated out of the
tangled skein, the mystery of the sobs in the night, of the
tear-stained face of Mrs. Barrymore, of the secret journey of the
butler to the western lattice window. Congratulate me, my dear Holmes,
and tell me that I have not disappointed you as an agent -- that you do
not regret the confidence which you showed in me when you sent me down.
All these things have by one night's work been thoroughly cleared. 

I have said "by one night's work," but, in truth, it was by two nights'
work, for on the first we drew entirely blank. I sat up with Sir Henry
in his rooms until nearly three o'clock in the morning, but no sound of
any sort did we hear except the chiming clock upon the stairs. It was a
most melancholy vigil and ended by each of us falling asleep in our
chairs. Fortunately we were not discouraged, and we determined to try
again. The next night we lowered the lamp and sat smoking cigarettes
without making the least sound. It was incredible how slowly the hours
crawled by, and yet we were helped through it by the same sort of
patient interest which the hunter must feel as he watches the trap into
which he hopes the game may wander. One struck, and two, and we had
almost for the second time given it up in despair when in an instant we
both sat bolt upright in our chairs with all our weary senses keenly on
the alert once more. We had heard the creak of a step in the passage. 

Very stealthily we heard it pass along until it died away in the
distance. Then the baronet gently opened his door and we set out in
pursuit. Already our man had gone round the gallery and the corridor
was all in darkness. Softly we stole along until we had come into the
other wing. We were just in time to catch a glimpse of the tall,
black-bearded figure, his shoulders rounded as he tiptoed down the
passage. Then he passed through the same door as before, and the light
of the candle framed it in the darkness and shot one single yellow beam
across the gloom of the corridor. We shuffled cautiously towards it,
trying every plank before we dared to put our whole weight upon it. We
had taken the precaution of leaving our boots behind us, but, even so,
the old boards snapped and creaked beneath our tread. Sometimes it
seemed impossible that he should fail to hear our approach. However,
the man is fortunately rather deaf, and he was entirely preoccupied in
that which he was doing. When at last we reached the door and peeped
through we found him crouching at the window, candle in hand, his
white, intent face pressed against the pane, exactly as I had seen him
two nights before. 

We had arranged no plan of campaign, but the baronet is a man to whom
the most direct way is always the most natural. He walked into the
room, and as he did so Barrymore sprang up from the window with a sharp
hiss of his breath and stood, livid and trembling, before us. His dark
eyes, glaring out of the white mask of his face, were full of horror
and astonishment as he gazed from Sir Henry to me. 

