
"For the very simple reason that I see the dog himself on our very
door-step, and there is the ring of its owner. Don't move, I beg you,
Watson. He is a professional brother of yours, and your presence may be
of assistance to me. Now is the dramatic moment of fate, Watson, when
you hear a step upon the stair which is walking into your life, and you
know not whether for good or ill. What does Dr. James Mortimer, the man
of science, ask of Sherlock Holmes, the specialist in crime? Come in!" 

The appearance of our visitor was a surprise to me, since I had
expected a typical country practitioner. He was a very tall, thin man,
with a long nose like a beak, which jutted out between two keen, gray
eyes, set closely together and sparkling brightly from behind a pair of
gold-rimmed glasses. He was clad in a professional but rather slovenly
fashion, for his frock-coat was dingy and his trousers frayed. Though
young, his long back was already bowed, and he walked with a forward
thrust of his head and a general air of peering benevolence. As he
entered his eyes fell upon the stick in Holmes's hand, and he ran
towards it with an exclamation of joy. "I am so very glad," said he. "I
was not sure whether I had left it here or in the Shipping Office. I
would not lose that stick for the world." 

"A presentation, I see," said Holmes. 

"Yes, sir." 

"From Charing Cross Hospital?" 

"From one or two friends there on the occasion of my marriage." 

"Dear, dear, that's bad!" said Holmes, shaking his head. 

Dr. Mortimer blinked through his glasses in mild astonishment. 

"Why was it bad?" 

"Only that you have disarranged our little deductions. Your marriage,
you say?" 

"Yes, sir. I married, and so left the hospital, and with it all hopes
of a consulting practice. It was necessary to make a home of my own." 

"Come, come, we are not so far wrong, after all," said Holmes. "And
now, Dr. James Mortimer -- " 

"Mister, sir, Mister -- a humble M.R.C.S." 

"And a man of precise mind, evidently." 

"A dabbler in science, Mr. Holmes, a picker up of shells on the shores
of the great unknown ocean. I presume that it is Mr. Sherlock Holmes
whom I am addressing and not -- " 

"No, this is my friend Dr. Watson." 

"Glad to meet you, sir. I have heard your name mentioned in connection
with that of your friend. You interest me very much, Mr. Holmes. I had
hardly expected so dolichocephalic a skull or such well-marked
supra-orbital development. Would you have any objection to my running
my finger along your parietal fissure? A cast of your skull, sir, until
