
"I fancy old Frankland allows her a pittance, but it cannot be more,
for his own affairs are considerably involved. Whatever she may have
deserved one could not allow her to go hopelessly to the bad. Her story
got about, and several of the people here did something to enable her
to earn an honest living. Stapleton did for one, and Sir Charles for
another. I gave a trifle myself. It was to set her up in a typewriting
business." 

He wanted to know the object of my inquiries, but I managed to satisfy
his curiosity without telling him too much, for there is no reason why
we should take anyone into our confidence. To-morrow morning I shall
find my way to Coombe Tracey, and if I can see this Mrs. Laura Lyons,
of equivocal reputation, a long step will have been made towards
clearing one incident in this chain of mysteries. I am certainly
developing the wisdom of the serpent, for when Mortimer pressed his
questions to an inconvenient extent I asked him casually to what type
Frankland's skull belonged, and so heard nothing but craniology for the
rest of our drive. I have not lived for years with Sherlock Holmes for
nothing. 

I have only one other incident to record upon this tempestuous and
melancholy day. This was my conversation with Barrymore just now, which
gives me one more strong card which I can play in due time. 

Mortimer had stayed to dinner, and he and the baronet played ecarte
afterwards. The butler brought me my coffee into the library, and I
took the chance to ask him a few questions. 

"Well," said I, "has this precious relation of yours departed, or is he
still lurking out yonder?" 

"I don't know, sir. I hope to heaven that he has gone, for he has
brought nothing but trouble here! I've not heard of him since I left
out food for him last, and that was three days ago." 

"Did you see him then?" 

"No, sir, but the food was gone when next I went that way." 

"Then he was certainly there?" 

"So you would think, sir, unless it was the other man who took it." 

I sat with my coffee-cup halfway to my lips and stared at Barrymore. 

"You know that there is another man then?" 

"Yes, sir; there is another man upon the moor." 

"Have you seen him?" 

"No, sir." 

"How do you know of him then?" 

"Selden told me of him, sir, a week ago or more. He's in hiding, too,
but he's not a convict as far as I can make out. I don't like it, Dr.
Watson -- I tell you straight, sir, that I don't like it." He spoke
with a sudden passion of earnestness. 
