cause? You don't believe it, do you, Watson?" 

"No, no." 

"And yet it was one thing to laugh about it in London, and it is
another to stand out here in the darkness of the moor and to hear such
a cry as that. And my uncle! There was the footprint of the hound
beside him as he lay. It all fits together. I don't think that I am a
coward, Watson, but that sound seemed to freeze my very blood. Feel my
hand!" 

It was as cold as a block of marble. 

"You'll be all right to-morrow." 

"I don't think I'll get that cry out of my head. What do you advise
that we do now?" 

"Shall we turn back?" 

"No, by thunder; we have come out to get our man, and we will do it. We
after the convict, and a hell-hound, as likely as not, after us. Come
on! We'll see it through if all the fiends of the pit were loose upon
the moor." 

We stumbled slowly along in the darkness, with the black loom of the
craggy hills around us, and the yellow speck of light burning steadily
in front. There is nothing so deceptive as the distance of a light upon
a pitch-dark night, and sometimes the glimmer seemed to be far away
upon the horizon and sometimes it might have been within a few yards of
us. But at last we could see whence it came, and then we knew that we
were indeed very close. A guttering candle was stuck in a crevice of
the rocks which flanked it on each side so as to keep the wind from it
and also to prevent it from being visible, save in the direction of
Baskerville Hall. A boulder of granite concealed our approach, and
crouching behind it we gazed over it at the signal light. It was
strange to see this single candle burning there in the middle of the
moor, with no sign of life near it -- just the one straight yellow
flame and the gleam of the rock on each side of it. 

"What shall we do now?" whispered Sir Henry. 

"Wait here. He must be near his light. Let us see if we can get a
glimpse of him." 

The words were hardly out of my mouth when we both saw him. Over the
rocks, in the crevice of which the candle burned, there was thrust out
an evil yellow face, a terrible animal face, all seamed and scored with
vile passions. Foul with mire, with a bristling beard, and hung with
matted hair, it might well have belonged to one of those old savages
who dwelt in the burrows on the hillsides. The light beneath him was
reflected in his small, cunning eyes which peered fiercely to right and
left through the darkness like a crafty and savage animal who has heard
the steps of the hunters. 

Something had evidently aroused his suspicions. It may have been that
Barrymore had some private signal which we had neglected to give, or
the fellow may have had some other reason for thinking that all was not
well, but I could read his fears upon his wicked face. Any instant he
might dash out the light and vanish in the darkness. I sprang forward
