but I dare say that there was a lurking devil in his eyes. I had
pictured him as a more robust and ruffianly person." 

"There's no doubt about the authenticity, for the name and the date,
1647, are on the back of the canvas." 

Holmes said little more, but the picture of the old roysterer seemed to
have a fascination for him, and his eyes were continually fixed upon it
during supper. It was not until later, when Sir Henry had gone to his
room, that I was able to follow the trend of his thoughts. He led me
back into the banqueting-hall, his bedroom candle in his hand, and he
held it up against the time-stained portrait on the wall. 

"Do you see anything there?" 

I looked at the broad plumed hat, the curling love-locks, the white
lace collar, and the straight, severe face which was framed between
them. It was not a brutal countenance, but it was prim hard, and stern,
with a firm-set, thin-lipped mouth, and a coldly intolerant eye. 

"Is it like anyone you know?" 

"There is something of Sir Henry about the jaw." 

"Just a suggestion, perhaps. But wait an instant!" He stood upon a
chair, and, holding up the light in his left hand, he curved his right
arm over the broad hat and round the long ringlets. 

"Good heavens!" I cried in amazement. 

The face of Stapleton had sprung out of the canvas. 

"Ha, you see it now. My eyes have been trained to examine faces and not
their trimmings. It is the first quality of a criminal investigator
that he should see through a disguise." 

"But this is marvellous. It might be his portrait." 

"Yes, it is an interesting instance of a throwback, which appears to be
both physical and spiritual. A study of family portraits is enough to
convert a man to the doctrine of reincarnation. The fellow is a
Baskerville -- that is evident." 

"With designs upon the succession." 

"Exactly. This chance of the picture has supplied us with one of our
most obvious missing links. We have him, Watson, we have him, and I
dare swear that before to-morrow night he will be fluttering in our net
as helpless as one of his own butterflies. A pin, a cork, and a card,
and we add him to the Baker Street collection!" He burst into one of
his rare fits of laughter as he turned away from the picture. I have
not heard him laugh often, and it has always boded ill to somebody. 

I was up betimes in the morning, but Holmes was afoot earlier still,
for I saw him as I dressed, coming up the drive. 

"Yes, we should have a full day to-day," he remarked, and he rubbed his
hands with the joy of action. "The nets are all in place, and the drag
is about to begin. We'll know before the day is out whether we have
caught our big, leanjawed pike, or whether he has got through the
