She glanced at them, and then looked up at us with the set rigid face
of a desperate woman. 

"Mr. Holmes," she said, "this man had offered me marriage on condition
that I could get a divorce from my husband. He has lied to me, the
villain, in every conceivable way. Not one word of truth has he ever
told me. And why -- why? I imagined that all was for my own sake. But
now I see that I was never anything but a tool in his hands. Why should
I preserve faith with him who never kept any with me? Why should I try
to shield him from the consequences of his own wicked acts? Ask me what
you like, and there is nothing which I shall hold back. One thing I
swear to you, and that is that when I wrote the letter I never dreamed
of any harm to the old gentleman, who had been my kindest friend." 

"I entirely believe you, madam," said Sherlock Holmes. 

"The recital of these events must be very painful to you, and perhaps
it will make it easier if I tell you what occurred, and you can check
me if I make any material mistake. The sending of this letter was
suggested to you by Stapleton?" 

"He dictated it." 

"I presume that the reason he gave was that you would receive help from
Sir Charles for the legal expenses connected with your divorce?" 

"Exactly." 

"And then after you had sent the letter he dissuaded you from keeping
the appointment?" 

"He told me that it would hurt his self-respect that any other man
should find the money for such an object, and that though he was a poor
man himself he would devote his last penny to removing the obstacles
which divided us." 

"He appears to be a very consistent character. And then you heard
nothing until you read the reports of the death in the paper?" 

"No." 

"And he made you swear to say nothing about your appointment with Sir
Charles?" 

"He did. He said that the death was a very mysterious one, and that I
should certainly be suspected if the facts came out. He frightened me
into remaining silent." 

"Quite so. But you had your suspicions?" 

She hesitated and looked down. 

"I knew him," she said. "But if he had kept faith with me I should
always have done so with him." 

"I think that on the whole you have had a fortunate escape," said
Sherlock Holmes. "You have had him in your power and he knew it, and
yet you are alive. You have been walking for some months very near to
the edge of a precipice. We must wish you good-morning now, Mrs. Lyons,
and it is probable that you will very shortly hear from us again." 
