for himself. We know there has been a presentation. We believe there
has been a change from a town hospital to a country practice. Is it,
then, stretching our inference too far to say that the presentation was
on the occasion of the change?" 

"It certainly seems probable." 

"Now, you will observe that he could not have been on the staff of the
hospital, since only a man well-established in a London practice could
hold such a position, and such a one would not drift into the country.
What was he, then? If he was in the hospital and yet not on the staff
he could only have been a house-surgeon or a house-physician -- little
more than a senior student. And he left five years ago -- the date is
on the stick. So your grave, middle-aged family practitioner vanishes
into thin air, my dear Watson, and there emerges a young fellow under
thirty, amiable, unambitious, absent-minded, and the possessor of a
favourite dog, which I should describe roughly as being larger than a
terrier and smaller than a mastiff." 

I laughed incredulously as Sherlock Holmes leaned back in his settee
and blew little wavering rings of smoke up to the ceiling. 

"As to the latter part, I have no means of checking you," said I, "but
at least it is not difficult to find out a few particulars about the
man's age and professional career." From my small medical shelf I took
down the Medical Directory and turned up the name. There were several
Mortimers, but only one who could be our visitor. I read his record
aloud. 

"Mortimer, James, M.R.C.S., 1882, Grimpen, Dartmoor, Devon.
House-surgeon, from 1882 to 1884, at Charing Cross Hospital. Winner of
the Jackson prize for Comparative Pathology, with essay entitled "Is
Disease a Reversion?" Corresponding member of the Swedish Pathological
Society. Author of "Some Freaks of Atavism" ( Lancet 1882 ). "Do We
Progress?" ( Journal of Psychology, March, 1883 ). Medical Officer for
the parishes of Grimpen, Thorsley, and High Barrow." 

"No mention of that local hunt, Watson," said Holmes with a mischievous
smile, "but a country doctor, as you very astutely observed. I think
that I am fairly justified in my inferences. As to the adjectives, I
said, if I remember right, amiable, unambitious, and absent-minded. It
is my experience that it is only an amiable man in this world who
receives testimonials, only an unambitious one who abandons a London
career for the country, and only an absent-minded one who leaves his
stick and not his visiting-card after waiting an hour in your room." 

"And the dog?" 

"Has been in the habit of carrying this stick behind his master. Being
a heavy stick the dog has held it tightly by the middle, and the marks
of his teeth are very plainly visible. The dog's jaw, as shown in the
space between these marks, is too broad in my opinion for a terrier and
not broad enough for a mastiff. It may have been -- yes, by Jove, it is
a curly-haired spaniel." 

He had risen and paced the room as he spoke. Now he halted in the
recess of the window. There was such a ring of conviction in his voice
that I glanced up in surprise. 

"My dear fellow, how can you possibly be so sure of that?" 
