
"Very good; and I will ask you also to do it blindly, without always
asking the reason." 

"Just as you like." 

"If you will do this I think the chances are that our little problem
will soon be solved. I have no doubt" 

He stopped suddenly and stared fixedly up over my head into the air.
The lamp beat upon his face, and so intent was it and so still that it
might have been that of a clear-cut classical statue, a personification
of alertness and expectation. 

"What is it?" we both cried. 

I could see as he looked down that he was repressing some internal
emotion. His features were still composed, but his eyes shone with
amused exultation. 

"Excuse the admiration of a connoisseur," said he as he waved his hand
towards the line of portraits which covered the opposite wall. "Watson
won't allow that I know anything of art but that is mere jealousy
because our views upon the subject differ. Now, these are a really very
fine series of portraits." 

"Well, I'm glad to hear you say so," said Sir Henry, glancing with some
surprise at my friend. "I don't pretend to know much about these
things, and I'd be a better judge of a horse or a steer than of a
picture. I didn't know that you found time for such things." 

"I know what is good when I see it, and I see it now. That's a Kneller,
I'll swear, that lady in the blue silk over yonder, and the stout
gentleman with the wig ought to be a Reynolds. They are all family
portraits, I presume?" 

"Every one." 

"Do you know the names?" 

"Barrymore has been coaching me in them, and I think I can say my
lessons fairly well." 

"Who is the gentleman with the telescope?" 

"That is Rear-Admiral Baskerville, who served under Rodney in the West
Indies. The man with the blue coat and the roll of paper is Sir William
Baskerville, who was Chairman of Committees of the House of Commons
under Pitt." 

"And this Cavalier opposite to me -- the one with the black velvet and
the lace?" 

"Ah, you have a right to know about him. That is the cause of all the
mischief, the wicked Hugo, who started the Hound of the Baskervilles.
We're not likely to forget him." 

I gazed with interest and some surprise upon the portrait. 

"Dear me!" said Holmes, "he seems a quiet, meek-mannered man enough,
