refused at first to believe that it was indeed his friend and patient
who lay before him -- it was explained that that is a symptom which is
not unusual in cases of dyspnoea and death from cardiac exhaustion.
This explanation was borne out by the post-mortem examination, which
showed long-standing organic disease, and the coroner's jury returned a
verdict in accordance with the medical evidence. It is well that this
is so, for it is obviously of the utmost importance that Sir Charles's
heir should settle at the Hall and continue the good work which has
been so sadly interrupted. Had the prosaic finding of the coroner not
finally put an end to the romantic stories which have been whispered in
connection with the affair, it might have been difficult to find a
tenant for Baskerville Hall. It is understood that the next of kin is
Mr. Henry Baskerville, if he be still alive, the son of Sir Charles
Baskerville's younger brother. The young man when last heard of was in
America, and inquiries are being instituted with a view to informing
him of his good fortune." 

Dr. Mortimer refolded his paper and replaced it in his pocket. 

"Those are the public facts, Mr. Holmes, in connection with the death
of Sir Charles Baskerville." 

"I must thank you," said Sherlock Holmes, "for calling my attention to
a case which certainly presents some features of interest. I had
observed some newspaper comment at the time, but I was exceedingly
preoccupied by that little affair of the Vatican cameos, and in my
anxiety to oblige the Pope I lost touch with several interesting
English cases. This article, you say, contains all the public facts?" 

"It does." 

"Then let me have the private ones." He leaned back, put his
finger-tips together, and assumed his most impassive and judicial
expression. 

"In doing so," said Dr. Mortimer, who had begun to show signs of some
strong emotion, "I am telling that which I have not confided to anyone.
My motive for withholding it from the coroner's inquiry is that a man
of science shrinks from placing himself in the public position of
seeming to indorse a popular superstition. I had the further motive
that Baskerville Hall, as the paper says, would certainly remain
untenanted if anything were done to increase its already rather grim
reputation. For both these reasons I thought that I was justified in
telling rather less than I knew, since no practical good could result
from it, but with you there is no reason why I should not be perfectly
frank. 

"The moor is very sparsely inhabited, and those who live near each
other are thrown very much together. For this reason I saw a good deal
of Sir Charles Baskerville. With the exception of Mr. Frankland, of
Lafter Hall, and Mr. Stapleton, the naturalist, there are no other men
of education within many miles. Sir Charles was a retiring man, but the
chance of his illness brought us together, and a community of interests
in science kept us so. He had brought back much scientific information
from South Africa, and many a charming evening we have spent together
discussing the comparative anatomy of the Bushman and the Hottentot. 

"Within the last few months it became increasingly plain to me that Sir
Charles's nervous system was strained to the breaking point. He had
taken this legend which I have read you exceedingly to heart -- so much
