"That is so. Someone, then, cut out the message with a pair of
short-bladed scissors, pasted it with paste -- " 

"Gum," said Holmes. 

"With gum on to the paper. But I want to know why the word "moor"
should have been written?" 

"Because he could not find it in print. The other words were all simple
and might be found in any issue, but "moor" would be less common." 

"Why, of course, that would explain it. Have you read anything else in
this message, Mr. Holmes?" 

"There are one or two indications, and yet the utmost pains have been
taken to remove all clues. The address, you observe is printed in rough
characters. But the Times is a paper which is seldom found in any hands
but those of the highly educated. We may take it, therefore, that the
letter was composed by an educated man who wished to pose as an
uneducated one, and his effort to conceal his own writing suggests that
that writing might be known, or come to be known, by you. Again, you
will observe that the words are not gummed on in an accurate line, but
that some are much higher than others. "Life," for example is quite out
of its proper place. That may point to carelessness or it may point to
agitation and hurry upon the part of the cutter. On the whole I incline
to the latter view, since the matter was evidently important, and it is
unlikely that the composer of such a letter would be careless. If he
were in a hurry it opens up the interesting question why he should be
in a hurry, since any letter posted up to early morning would reach Sir
Henry before he would leave his hotel. Did the composer fear an
interruption -- and from whom?" 

"We are coming now rather into the region of guesswork," said Dr.
Mortimer. 

"Say, rather, into the region where we balance probabilities and choose
the most likely. It is the scientific use of the imagination, but we
have always some material basis on which to start our speculation. Now,
you would call it a guess, no doubt, but I am almost certain that this
address has been written in a hotel." 

"How in the world can you say that?" 

"If you examine it carefully you will see that both the pen and the ink
have given the writer trouble. The pen has spluttered twice in a single
word and has run dry three times in a short address, showing that there
was very little ink in the bottle. Now, a private pen or ink-bottle is
seldom allowed to be in such a state, and the combination of the two
must be quite rare. But you know the hotel ink and the hotel pen, where
it is rare to get anything else. Yes, I have very little hesitation in
saying that could we examine the waste-paper baskets of the hotels
around Charing Cross until we found the remains of the mutilated Times
leader we could lay our hands straight upon the person who sent this
singular message. Halloa! Halloa! What's this?" 

He was carefully examining the foolscap, upon which the words were
pasted, holding it only an inch or two from his eyes. 

"Well?" 

