
"No, no, sir; no, not against you!" It was a woman's voice, and Mrs.
Barrymore, paler and more horror-struck than her husband, was standing
at the door. Her bulky figure in a shawl and skirt might have been
comic were it not for the intensity of feeling upon her face. 

"We have to go, Eliza. This is the end of it. You can pack our things,"
said the butler. 

"Oh, John, John, have I brought you to this? It is my doing, Sir Henry
-- all mine. He has done nothing except for my sake and because I asked
him." 

"Speak out, then! What does it mean?" 

"My unhappy brother is starving on the moor. We cannot let him perish
at our very gates. The light is a signal to him that food is ready for
him, and his light out yonder is to show the spot to which to bring
it." 

"Then your brother is -- " 

"The escaped convict, sir -- Selden, the criminal." 

"That's the truth, sir," said Barrymore. "I said that it was not my
secret and that I could not tell it to you. But now you have heard it,
and you will see that if there was a plot it was not against you." 

This, then, was the explanation of the stealthy expeditions at night
and the light at the window. Sir Henry and I both stared at the woman
in amazement. Was it possible that this stolidly respectable person was
of the same blood as one of the most notorious criminals in the
country? 

"Yes, sir, my name was Selden, and he is my younger brother. We
humoured him too much when he was a lad and gave him his own way in
everything until he came to think that the world was made for his
pleasure, and that he could do what he liked in it. Then as he grew
older he met wicked companions, and the devil entered into him until he
broke my mother's heart and dragged our name in the dirt. From crime to
crime he sank lower and lower until it is only the mercy of God which
has snatched him from the scaffold; but to me, sir, he was always the
little curly-headed boy that I had nursed and played with as an elder
sister would. That was why he broke prison, sir. He knew that I was
here and that we could not refuse to help him. When he dragged himself
here one night, weary and starving, with the warders hard at his heels,
what could we do? We took him in and fed him and cared for him. Then
you returned, sir, and my brother thought he would be safer on the moor
than anywhere else until the hue and cry was over, so he lay in hiding
there. But every second night we made sure if he was still there by
putting a light in the window, and if there was an answer my husband
took out some bread and meat to him. Every day we hoped that he was
gone, but as long as he was there we could not desert him. That is the
whole truth, as I am an honest Christian woman and you will see that if
there is blame in the matter it does not lie with my husband but with
me, for whose sake he has done all that he has." 

The woman's words came with an intense earnestness which carried
conviction with them. 

