"Is this true, Barrymore?" 

"Yes, Sir Henry. Every word of it." 

"Well, I cannot blame you for standing by your own wife. Forget what I
have said. Go to your room, you two, and we shall talk further about
this matter in the morning." 

When they were gone we looked out of the window again. Sir Henry had
flung it open, and the cold night wind beat in upon our faces. Far away
in the black distance there still glowed that one tiny point of yellow
light. 

"I wonder he dares," said Sir Henry. 

"It may be so placed as to be only visible from here." 

"Very likely. How far do you think it is?" 

"Out by the Cleft Tor, I think." 

"Not more than a mile or two off." 

"Hardly that." 

"Well, it cannot be far if Barrymore had to carry out the food to it.
And he is waiting, this villain, beside that candle. By thunder,
Watson, I am going out to take that man!" 

The same thought had crossed my own mind. It was not as if the
Barrymores had taken us into their confidence. Their secret had been
forced from them. The man was a danger to the community, an unmitigated
scoundrel for whom there was neither pity nor excuse. We were only
doing our duty in taking this chance of putting him back where he could
do no harm. With his brutal and violent nature, others would have to
pay the price if we held our hands. Any night, for example, our
neighbours the Stapletons might be attacked by him, and it may have
been the thought of this which made Sir Henry so keen upon the
adventure. 

"I will come," said I. 

"Then get your revolver and put on your boots. The sooner we start the
better, as the fellow may put out his light and be off." 

In five minutes we were outside the door, starting upon our expedition.
We hurried through the dark shrubbery, amid the dull moaning of the
autumn wind and the rustle of the falling leaves. The night air was
heavy with the smell of damp and decay. Now and again the moon peeped
out for an instant, but clouds were driving over the face of the sky,
and just as we came out on the moor a thin rain began to fall. The
light still burned steadily in front. 

"Are you armed?" I asked. 

"I have a hunting-crop." 

"We must close in on him rapidly, for he is said to be a desperate
fellow. We shall take him by surprise and have him at our mercy before
he can resist." 
