
"Well, perhaps it was. Did you ever hear a bittern booming?" 

"No, I never did." 

"It's a very rare bird -- practically extinct -- in England now, but
all things are possible upon the moor. Yes, I should not be surprised
to learn that what we have heard is the cry of the last of the
bitterns." 

"It's the weirdest, strangest thing that ever I heard in my life." 

"Yes, it's rather an uncanny place altogether. Look at the hillside
yonder. What do you make of those?" 

The whole steep slope was covered with gray circular rings of stone, a
score of them at least. 

"What are they? Sheep-pens?" 

"No, they are the homes of our worthy ancestors. Prehistoric man lived
thickly on the moor, and as no one in particular has lived there since,
we find all his little arrangements exactly as he left them. These are
his wigwams with the roofs off. You can even see his hearth and his
couch if you have the curiosity to go inside. 

"But it is quite a town. When was it inhabited?" 

"Neolithic man -- no date." 

"What did he do?" 

"He grazed his cattle on these slopes, and he learned to dig for tin
when the bronze sword began to supersede the stone axe. Look at the
great trench in the opposite hill. That is his mark. Yes, you will find
some very singular points about the moor, Dr. Watson. Oh, excuse me an
instant! It is surely Cyclopides." 

A small fly or moth had fluttered across our path, and in an instant
Stapleton was rushing with extraordinary energy and speed in pursuit of
it. To my dismay the creature flew straight for the great mire, and my
acquaintance never paused for an instant, bounding from tuft to tuft
behind it, his green net waving in the air. His gray clothes and jerky,
zigzag, irregular progress made him not unlike some huge moth himself.
I was standing watching his pursuit with a mixture of admiration for
his extraordinary activity and fear lest he should lose his footing in
the treacherous mire when I heard the sound of steps and, turning
round, found a woman near me upon the path. She had come from the
direction in which the plume of smoke indicated the position of
Merripit House, but the dip of the moor had hid her until she was quite
close. 

I could not doubt that this was the Miss Stapleton of whom I had been
told, since ladies of any sort must be few upon the moor, and I
remembered that I had heard someone describe her as being a beauty. The
woman who approached me was certainly that, and of a most uncommon
type. There could not have been a greater contrast between brother and
sister, for Stapleton was neutral tinted, with light hair and gray
eyes, while she was darker than any brunette whom I have seen in
England -- slim, elegant, and tall. She had a proud, finely cut face,
