cloth cap he looked like any other tourist upon the moor, and he had
contrived, with that catlike love of personal cleanliness which was one
of his characteristics, that his chin should be as smooth and his linen
as perfect as if he were in Baker Street. 

"I never was more glad to see anyone in my life," said I as I wrung him
by the hand. 

"Or more astonished, eh?" 

"Well, I must confess to it." 

"The surprise was not all on one side, I assure you. I had no idea that
you had found my occasional retreat, still less that you were inside
it, until I was within twenty paces of the door." 

"My footprint, I presume?" 

"No, Watson, I fear that I could not undertake to recognize your
footprint amid all the footprints of the world. If you seriously desire
to deceive me you must change your tobacconist; for when I see the stub
of a cigarette marked Bradley, Oxford Street, I know that my friend
Watson is in the neighbourhood. You will see it there beside the path.
You threw it down, no doubt, at that supreme moment when you charged
into the empty hut." 

"Exactly." 

"I thought as much -- and knowing your admirable tenacity I was
convinced that you were sitting in ambush, a weapon within reach,
waiting for the tenant to return. So you actually thought that I was
the criminal?" 

"I did not know who you were, but I was determined to find out." 

"Excellent, Watson! And how did you localize me? You saw me, perhaps,
on the night of the convict hunt, when I was so imprudent as to allow
the moon to rise behind me?" 

"Yes, I saw you then." 

"And have no doubt searched all the huts until you came to this one?" 

"No, your boy had been observed, and that gave me a guide where to
look." 

"The old gentleman with the telescope, no doubt. I could not make it
out when first I saw the light flashing upon the lens." He rose and
peeped into the hut. "Ha, I see that Cartwright has brought up some
supplies. What's this paper? So you have been to Coombe Tracey, have
you?" 

"Yes." 

"To see Mrs. Laura Lyons?" 

"Exactly." 

"Well done! Our researches have evidently been running on parallel
lines, and when we unite our results I expect we shall have a fairly
