the escaped convict. If he would confine his energies to this all would
be well, but there are rumours that he intends to prosecute Dr.
Mortimer for opening a grave without the consent of the next of kin
because he dug up the neolithic skull in the barrow on Long Down. He
helps to keep our lives from being monotonous and gives a little comic
relief where it is badly needed. 

And now, having brought you up to date in the escaped convict, the
Stapletons, Dr. Mortimer, and Frankland, of Lafter Hall, let me end on
that which is most important and tell you more about the Barrymores,
and especially about the surprising development of last night. 

First of all about the test telegram, which you sent from London in
order to make sure that Barrymore was really here. I have already
explained that the testimony of the postmaster shows that the test was
worthless and that we have no proof one way or the other. I told Sir
Henry how the matter stood, and he at once, in his downright fashion,
had Barrymore up and asked him whether he had received the telegram
himself. Barrymore said that he had. 

"Did the boy deliver it into your own hands?" asked Sir Henry. 

Barrymore looked surprised, and considered for a little time. 

"No," said he, "I was in the box-room at the time, and my wife brought
it up to me." 

"Did you answer it yourself?" 

"No; I told my wife what to answer and she went down to write it." 

In the evening he recurred to the subject of his own accord. 

"I could not quite understand the object of your questions this
morning, Sir Henry," said he. "I trust that they do not mean that I
have done anything to forfeit your confidence?" 

Sir Henry had to assure him that it was not so and pacify him by giving
him a considerable part of his old wardrobe, the London outfit having
now all arrived. 

Mrs. Barrymore is of interest to me. She is a heavy, solid person, very
limited, intensely respectable, and inclined to be puritanical. You
could hardly conceive a less emotional subject. Yet I have told you
how, on the first night here, I heard her sobbing bitterly, and since
then I have more than once observed traces of tears upon her face. Some
deep sorrow gnaws ever at her heart. Sometimes I wonder if she has a
guilty memory which haunts her, and sometimes I suspect Barrymore of
being a domestic tyrant. I have always felt that there was something
singular and questionable in this man's character, but the adventure of
last night brings all my suspicions to a head. 

And yet it may seem a small matter in itself. You are aware that I am
not a very sound sleeper, and since I have been on guard in this house
my slumbers have been lighter than ever. Last night, about two in the
morning, I was aroused by a stealthy step passing my room. I rose,
opened my door, and peeped out. A long black shadow was trailing down
the corridor. It was thrown by a man who walked softly down the passage
with a candle held in his hand. He was in shirt and trousers, with no
covering to his feet. I could merely see the outline, but his height
