One of these, concerning which I have said little, is the escaped
convict upon the moor. There is strong reason now to believe that he
has got right away, which is a considerable relief to the lonely
householders of this district. A fortnight has passed since his flight,
during which he has not been seen and nothing has been heard of him. It
is surely inconceivable that he could have held out upon the moor
during all that time. Of course, so far as his concealment goes there
is no difficulty at all. Any one of these stone huts would give him a
hiding-place. But there is nothing to eat unless he were to catch and
slaughter one of the moor sheep. We think, therefore, that he has gone,
and the outlying farmers sleep the better in consequence. 

We are four able-bodied men in this household, so that we could take
good care of ourselves, but I confess that I have had uneasy moments
when I have thought of the Stapletons. They live miles from any help.
There are one maid, an old manservant, the sister, and the brother, the
latter not a very strong man. They would be helpless in the hands of a
desperate fellow like this Notting Hill criminal if he could once
effect an entrance. Both Sir Henry and I were concerned at their
situation, and it was suggested that Perkins the groom should go over
to sleep there, but Stapleton would not hear of it. 

The fact is that our friend, the baronet, begins to display a
considerable interest in our fair neighbour. It is not to be wondered
at, for time hangs heavily in this lonely spot to an active man like
him, and she is a very fascinating and beautiful woman. There is
something tropical and exotic about her which forms a singular contrast
to her cool and unemotional brother. Yet he also gives the idea of
hidden fires. He has certainly a very marked influence over her, for I
have seen her continually glance at him as she talked as if seeking
approbation for what she said. I trust that he is kind to her. There is
a dry glitter in his eyes and a firm set of his thin lips, which goes
with a positive and possibly a harsh nature. You would find him an
interesting study. 

He came over to call upon Baskerville on that first day, and the very
next morning he took us both to show us the spot where the legend of
the wicked Hugo is supposed to have had its origin. It was an excursion
of some miles across the moor to a place which is so dismal that it
might have suggested the story. We found a short valley between rugged
tors which led to an open, grassy space flecked over with the white
cotton grass. In the middle of it rose two great stones, worn and
sharpened at the upper end until they looked like the huge corroding
fangs of some monstrous beast. In every way it corresponded with the
scene of the old tragedy. Sir Henry was much interested and asked
Stapleton more than once whether he did really believe in the
possibility of the interference of the supernatural in the affairs of
men. He spoke lightly, but it was evident that he was very much in
earnest. Stapleton was guarded in his replies, but it was easy to see
that he said less than he might, and that he would not express his
whole opinion out of consideration for the feelings of the baronet. He
told us of similar cases, where families had suffered from some evil
influence, and he left us with the impression that he shared the
popular view upon the matter. 

On our way back we stayed for lunch at Merripit House, and it was there
that Sir Henry made the acquaintance of Miss Stapleton. From the first
moment that he saw her he appeared to be strongly attracted by her, and
I am much mistaken if the feeling was not mutual. He referred to her
again and again on our walk home, and since then hardly a day has
