
Here was luck indeed! And yet I suppressed all appearance of interest.
A child! Barrymore had said that our unknown was supplied by a boy. It
was on his track, and not upon the convict's, that Frankland had
stumbled. If I could get his knowledge it might save me a long and
weary hunt. But incredulity and indifference were evidently my
strongest cards. 

"I should say that it was much more likely that it was the son of one
of the moorland shepherds taking out his father's dinner." 

The least appearance of opposition struck fire out of the old autocrat.
His eyes looked malignantly at me, and his gray whiskers bristled like
those of an angry cat. 

"Indeed, sir!" said he, pointing out over the wide-stretching moor. "Do
you see that Black Tor over yonder? Well, do you see the low hill
beyond with the thornbush upon it? It is the stoniest part of the whole
moor. Is that a place where a shepherd would be likely to take his
station? Your suggestion, sir, is a most absurd one." 

I meekly answered that I had spoken without knowing all the facts. My
submission pleased him and led him to further confidences. 

"You may be sure, sir, that I have very good grounds before I come to
an opinion. I have seen the boy again and again with his bundle. Every
day, and sometimes twice a day, I have been able -- but wait a moment,
Dr. Watson. Do my eyes deceive me, or is there at the present moment
something moving upon that hillside?" 

It was several miles off, but I could distinctly see a small dark dot
against the dull green and gray. 

"Come, sir, come!" cried Frankland, rushing upstairs. "You will see
with your own eyes and judge for yourself." 

The telescope, a formidable instrument mounted upon a tripod, stood
upon the flat leads of the house. Frankland clapped his eye to it and
gave a cry of satisfaction. 

"Quick, Dr. Watson, quick, before he passes over the hill!" 

There he was, sure enough, a small urchin with a little bundle upon his
shoulder, toiling slowly up the hill. When he reached the crest I saw
the ragged uncouth figure outlined for an instant against the cold blue
sky. He looked round him with a furtive and stealthy air, as one who
dreads pursuit. Then he vanished over the hill. 

"Well! Am I right?" 

"Certainly, there is a boy who seems to have some secret errand." 

"And what the errand is even a county constable could guess. But not
one word shall they have from me, and I bind you to secrecy also, Dr.
Watson. Not a word! You understand!" 

"Just as you wish." 

"They have treated me shamefully -- shamefully. When the facts come out
in Frankland v. Regina I venture to think that a thrill of indignation
