look here, Mr. Holmes, it's half-past eleven now and I am going back
right away to my hotel. Suppose you and your friend, Dr. Watson, come
round and lunch with us at two. I'll be able to tell you more clearly
then how this thing strikes me." 

"Is that convenient to you, Watson?" 

"Perfectly." 

"Then you may expect us. Shall I have a cab called?" 

"I'd prefer to walk, for this affair has flurried me rather." 

"I'll join you in a walk, with pleasure," said his companion. 

"Then we meet again at two o'clock. Au revoir, and good-morning!" 

We heard the steps of our visitors descend the stair and the bang of
the front door. In an instant Holmes had changed from the languid
dreamer to the man of action. 

"Your hat and boots, Watson, quick! Not a moment to lose!" He rushed
into his room in his dressing-gown and was back again in a few seconds
in a frock-coat. We hurried together down the stairs and into the
street. Dr. Mortimer and Baskerville were still visible about two
hundred yards ahead of us in the direction of Oxford Street. 

"Shall I run on and stop them?" 

"Not for the world, my dear Watson. I am perfectly satisfied with your
company if you will tolerate mine. Our friends are wise, for it is
certainly a very fine morning for a walk." 

He quickened his pace until we had decreased the distance which divided
us by about half. Then, still keeping a hundred yards behind, we
followed into Oxford Street and so down Regent Street. Once our friends
stopped and stared into a shop window, upon which Holmes did the same.
An instant afterwards he gave a little cry of satisfaction, and,
following the direction of his eager eyes, I saw that a hansom cab with
a man inside which had halted on the other side of the street was now
proceeding slowly onward again. 

"There's our man, Watson! Come along! We'll have a good look at him, if
we can do no more." 

At that instant I was aware of a bushy black beard and a pair of
piercing eyes turned upon us through the side window of the cab.
Instantly the trapdoor at the top flew up, something was screamed to
the driver, and the cab flew madly off down Regent Street. Holmes
looked eagerly round for another, but no-empty one was in sight. Then
he dashed in wild pursuit amid the stream of the traffic, but the start
was too great, and already the cab was out of sight. 

"There now!" said Holmes bitterly as he emerged panting and white with
vexation from the tide of vehicles. "Was ever such bad luck and such
bad management, too? Watson, Watson, if you are an honest man you will
record this also and set it against my successes!" 

"Who was the man?" 

