"Then you must excuse yourself and he must go alone. That will be
easily arranged. And now, if we are too late for dinner, I think that
we are both ready for our suppers." 

Sir Henry was more pleased than surprised to see Sherlock Holmes, for
he had for some days been expecting that recent events would bring him
down from London. He did raise his eyebrows, however, when he found
that my friend had neither any luggage nor any explanations for its
absence. Between us we soon supplied his wants, and then over a belated
supper we explained to the baronet as much of our experience as it
seemed desirable that he should know. But first I had the unpleasant
duty of breaking the news to Barrymore and his wife. To him it may have
been an unmitigated relief, but she wept bitterly in her apron. To all
the world he was the man of violence, half animal and half demon; but
to her he always remained the little wilful boy of her own girlhood,
the child who had clung to her hand. Evil indeed is the man who has not
one woman to mourn him. 

"I've been moping in the house all day since Watson went off in the
morning," said the baronet. "I guess I should have some credit, for I
have kept my promise. If I hadn't sworn not to go about alone I might
have had a more lively evening, for I had a message from Stapleton
asking me over there." 

"I have no doubt that you would have had a more lively evening," said
Holmes drily. "By the way, I don't suppose you appreciate that we have
been mourning over you as having broken your neck?" 

Sir Henry opened his eyes. "How was that?" 

"This poor wretch was dressed in your clothes. I fear your servant who
gave them to him may get into trouble with the police." 

"That is unlikely. There was no mark on any of them, as far as I know." 

"That's lucky for him -- in fact, it's lucky for all of you, since you
are all on the wrong side of the law in this matter. I am not sure that
as a conscientious detective my first duty is not to arrest the whole
household. Watson's reports are most incriminating documents." 

"But how about the case?" asked the baronet. "Have you made anything
out of the tangle? I don't know that Watson and I are much the wiser
since we came down." 

"I think that I shall be in a position to make the situation rather
more clear to you before long. It has been an exceedingly difficult and
most complicated business. There are several points upon which we still
want light -- but it is coming all the same." 

"We've had one experience, as Watson has no doubt told you. We heard
the hound on the moor, so I can swear that it is not all empty
superstition. I had something to do with dogs when I was out West, and
I know one when I hear one. If you can muzzle that one and put him on a
chain I'll be ready to swear you are the greatest detective of all
time." 

"I think I will muzzle him and chain him all right if you will give me
your help." 

"Whatever you tell me to do I will do." 
