the money should go with the title and estate. That was my poor uncle's
idea. How is the owner going to restore the glories of the Baskervilles
if he has not money enough to keep up the property? House, land, and
dollars must go together." 

"Quite so. Well, Sir Henry, I am of one mind with you as to the
advisability of your going down to Devonshire without delay. There is
only one provision which I must make. You certainly must not go alone." 

"Dr. Mortimer returns with me." 

"But Dr. Mortimer has his practice to attend to, and his house is miles
away from yours. With all the good will in the world he may be unable
to help you. No, Sir Henry, you must take with you someone, a trusty
man, who will be always by your side." 

"Is it possible that you could come yourself, Mr. Holmes?" 

"If matters came to a crisis I should endeavour to be present in
person; but you can understand that, with my extensive consulting
practice and with the constant appeals which reach me from many
quarters, it is impossible for me to be absent from London for an
indefinite time. At the present instant one of the most revered names
in England is being besmirched by a blackmailer, and only I can stop a
disastrous scandal. You will see how impossible it is for me to go to
Dartmoor." 

"Whom would you recommend, then?" 

Holmes laid his hand upon my arm. 

"If my friend would undertake it there is no man who is better worth
having at your side when you are in a tight place. No one can say so
more confidently than I." 

The proposition took me completely by surprise, but before I had time
to answer, Baskerville seized me by the hand and wrung it heartily. 

"Well, now, that is real kind of you, Dr. Watson," said he. "You see
how it is with me, and you know just as much about the matter as I do.
If you will come down to Baskerville Hall and see me through I'll never
forget it." 

The promise of adventure had always a fascination for me, and I was
complimented by the words of Holmes and by the eagerness with which the
baronet hailed me as a companion. 

"I will come, with pleasure," said I. "I do not know how I could employ
my time better." 

"And you will report very carefully to me," said Holmes. "When a crisis
comes, as it will do, I will direct how you shall act. I suppose that
by Saturday all might be ready?" 

"Would that suit Dr. Watson?" 

"Perfectly." 

"Then on Saturday, unless you hear to the contrary, we shall meet at
the ten-thirty train from Paddington." 
