
"Yes, I think it would be as well." 

So as the fog-bank flowed onward we fell back before it until we were
half a mile from the house, and still that dense white sea, with the
moon silvering its upper edge, swept slowly and inexorably on. 

"We are going too far," said Holmes. "We dare not take the chance of
his being overtaken before he can reach us. At all costs we must hold
our ground where we are." He dropped on his knees and clapped his ear
to the ground. "Thank God, I think that I hear him coming." 

A sound of quick steps broke the silence of the moor. Crouching among
the stones we stared intently at the silver-tipped bank in front of us.
The steps grew louder, and through the fog, as through a curtain, there
stepped the man whom we were awaiting. He looked round him in surprise
as he emerged into the clear, starlit night. Then he came swiftly along
the path, passed close to where we lay, and went on up the long slope
behind us. As he walked he glanced continually over either shoulder,
like a man who is ill at ease. 

"Hist!" cried Holmes, and I heard the sharp click of a cocking pistol.
"Look out! It's coming!" 

There was a thin, crisp, continuous patter from somewhere in the heart
of that crawling bank. The cloud was within fifty yards of where we
lay, and we glared at it, all three, uncertain what horror was about to
break from the heart of it. I was at Holmes's elbow, and I glanced for
an instant at his face. It was pale and exultant, his eyes shining
brightly in the moonlight. But suddenly they started forward in a
rigid, fixed stare, and his lips parted in amazement. At the same
instant Lestrade gave a yell of terror and threw himself face downward
upon the ground. I sprang to my feet, my inert hand grasping my pistol,
my mind paralyzed by the dreadful shape which had sprung out upon us
from the shadows of the fog. A hound it was, an enormous coal-black
hound, but not such a hound as mortal eyes have ever seen. Fire burst
from its open mouth, its eyes glowed with a smouldering glare, its
muzzle and hackles and dewlap were outlined in flickering flame. Never
in the delirious dream of a disordered brain could anything more
savage, more appalling, more hellish be conceived than that dark form
and savage face which broke upon us out of the wall of fog. 

With long bounds the huge black creature was leaping down the track,
following hard upon the footsteps of our friend. So paralyzed were we
by the apparition that we allowed him to pass before we had recovered
our nerve. Then Holmes and I both fired together, and the creature gave
a hideous howl, which showed that one at least had hit him. He did not
pause, however, but bounded onward. Far away on the path we saw Sir
Henry looking back, his face white in the moonlight, his hands raised
in horror, glaring helplessly at the frightful thing which was hunting
him down. 

But that cry of pain from the hound had blown all our fears to the
winds. If he was vulnerable he was mortal, and if we could wound him we
could kill him. Never have I seen a man run as Holmes ran that night. I
am reckoned fleet of foot, but he outpaced me as much as I outpaced the
little professional. In front of us as we flew up the track we heard
scream after scream from Sir Henry and the deep roar of the hound. I
was in time to see the beast spring upon its victim, hurl him to the
ground, and worry at his throat. But the next instant Holmes had
