Dr. Mortimer looked at Holmes with an air of professional interest, and
Sir Henry Baskerville turned a pair of puzzled dark eyes upon me. 

"I don't know much about the tariff and things of that kind," said he,
"but it seems to me we've got a bit off the trail so far as that note
is concerned." 

"On the contrary, I think we are particularly hot upon the trail, Sir
Henry. Watson here knows more about my methods than you do, but I fear
that even he has not quite grasped the significance of this sentence." 

"No, I confess that I see no connection." 

"And yet, my dear Watson, there is so very close a connection that the
one is extracted out of the other. "You," "your," "your," "life,"
"reason," "value," "keep away," "from the." Don't you see now whence
these words have been taken?" 

"By thunder, you're right! Well, if that isn't smart!" cried Sir Henry. 

"If any possible doubt remained it is settled by the fact that "keep
away" and "from the" are cut out in one piece." 

"Well, now -- so it is!" 

"Really, Mr. Holmes, this exceeds anything which I could have
imagined," said Dr. Mortimer, gazing at my friend in amazement. "I
could understand anyone saying that the words were from a newspaper;
but that you should name which, and add that it came from the leading
article, is really one of the most remarkable things which I have ever
known. How did you do it?" 

"I presume, Doctor, that you could tell the skull of a negro from that
of an Esquimau?" 

"Most certainly." 

"But how?" 

"Because that is my special hobby. The differences are obvious. The
supra-orbital crest, the facial angle, the maxillary curve, the -- " 

"But this is my special hobby, and the differences are equally obvious.
There is as much difference to my eyes between the leaded bourgeois
type of a Times article and the slovenly print of an evening half-penny
paper as there could be between your negro and your Esquimau. The
detection of types is one of the most elementary branches of knowledge
to the special expert in crime, though I confess that once when I was
very young I confused the Leeds Mercury with the Western Morning News.
But a Times leader is entirely distinctive, and these words could have
been taken from nothing else. As it was done yesterday the strong
probability was that we should find the words in yesterday's issue." 

"So far as I can follow you, then, Mr. Holmes," said Sir Henry
Baskerville, "someone cut out this message with a scissors -- " 

"Nail-scissors," said Holmes. "You can see that it was a very
short-bladed scissors, since the cutter had to take two snips over
"keep away."" 

