farther end. 

"Was it here?" he asked in a low voice. 

"No, no, the yew alley is on the other side." 

The young heir glanced round with a gloomy face. 

"It's no wonder my uncle felt as if trouble were coming on him in such
a place as this," said he. "It's enough to scare any man. I'll have a
row of electric lamps up here inside of six months, and you won't know
it again, with a thousand candlepower Swan and Edison right here in
front of the hall door." 

The avenue opened into a broad expanse of turf, and the house lay
before us. In the fading light I could see that the centre was a heavy
block of building from which a porch projected. The whole front was
draped in ivy, with a patch clipped bare here and there where a window
or a coat of arms broke through the dark veil. From this central block
rose the twin towers, ancient, crenellated, and pierced with many
loopholes. To right and left of the turrets were more modern wings of
black granite. A dull light shone through heavy mullioned windows, and
from the high chimneys which rose from the steep, high-angled roof
there sprang a single black column of smoke. 

"Welcome, Sir Henry! Welcome to Baskerville Hall!" 

A tall man had stepped from the shadow of the porch to open the door of
the wagonette. The figure of a woman was silhouetted against the yellow
light of the hall. She came out and helped the man to hand down our
bags. 

"You don't mind my driving straight home, Sir Henry?" said Dr.
Mortimer. "My wife is expecting me." 

"Surely you will stay and have some dinner?" 

"No, I must go. I shall probably find some work awaiting me. I would
stay to show you over the house, but Barrymore will be a better guide
than I. Good-bye, and never hesitate night or day to send for me if I
can be of service." 

The wheels died away down the drive while Sir Henry and I turned into
the hall, and the door clanged heavily behind us. It was a fine
apartment in which we found ourselves, large, lofty, and heavily
raftered with huge baulks of age-blackened oak. In the great
old-fashioned fireplace behind the high iron dogs a log-fire crackled
and snapped. Sir Henry and I held out our hands to it, for we were numb
from our long drive. Then we gazed round us at the high, thin window of
old stained glass, the oak panelling, the stags' heads, the coats of
arms upon the walls, all dim and sombre in the subdued light of the
central lamp. 

"It's just as I imagined it," said Sir Henry. "Is it not the very
picture of an old family home? To think that this should be the same
hall in which for five hundred years my people have lived. It strikes
me solemn to think of it." 

I saw his dark face lit up with a boyish enthusiasm as he gazed about
him. The light beat upon him where he stood, but long shadows trailed
