
"I say, Watson," said the baronet, "what would Holmes say to this? How
about that hour of darkness in which the power of evil is exalted?" 

As if in answer to his words there rose suddenly out of the vast gloom
of the moor that strange cry which I had already heard upon the borders
of the great Grimpen Mire. It came with the wind through the silence of
the night, a long, deep mutter then a rising howl, and then the sad
moan in which it died away. Again and again it sounded, the whole air
throbbing with it, strident, wild, and menacing. The baronet caught my
sleeve and his face glimmered white through the darkness. 

"My God, what's that, Watson?" 

"I don't know. It's a sound they have on the moor. I heard it once
before." 

It died away, and an absolute silence closed in upon us. We stood
straining our ears, but nothing came. 

"Watson," said the baronet, "it was the cry of a hound." 

My blood ran cold in my veins, for there was a break in his voice which
told of the sudden horror which had seized him. 

"What do they call this sound?" he asked. 

"Who?" 

"The folk on the countryside." 

"Oh, they are ignorant people. Why should you mind what they call it?" 

"Tell me, Watson. What do they say of it?" 

I hesitated but could not escape the question. 

"They say it is the cry of the Hound of the Baskervilles." 

He groaned and was silent for a few moments. 

"A hound it was," he said at last, "but it seemed to come from miles
away, over yonder, I think." 

"It was hard to say whence it came." 

"It rose and fell with the wind. Isn't that the direction of the great
Grimpen Mire?" 

"Yes, it is." 

"Well, it was up there. Come now, Watson, didn't you think yourself
that it was the cry of a hound? I am not a child. You need not fear to
speak the truth." 

"Stapleton was with me when I heard it last. He said that it might be
the calling of a strange bird." 

"No, no, it was a hound. My God, can there be some truth in all these
stories? Is it possible that I am really in danger from so dark a
