"And, now, gentlemen," said the baronet with decision, "it seems to me
that I have spoken quite enough about the little that I know. It is
time that you kept your promise and gave me a full account of what we
are all driving at." 

"Your request is a very reasonable one," Holmes answered. "Dr.
Mortimer, I think you could not do better than to tell your story as
you told it to us." 

Thus encouraged, our scientific friend drew his papers from his pocket
and presented the whole case as he had done upon the morning before.
Sir Henry Baskerville listened with the deepest attention and with an
occasional exclamation of surprise. 

"Well, I seem to have come into an inheritance with a vengeance," said
he when the long narrative was finished. "Of course, I've heard of the
hound ever since I was in the nursery. It's the pet story of the
family, though I never thought of taking it seriously before. But as to
my uncle's death -- well, it all seems boiling up in my head, and I
can't get it clear yet. You don't seem quite to have made up your mind
whether it's a case for a policeman or a clergyman." 

"Precisely." 

"And now there's this affair of the letter to me at the hotel. I
suppose that fits into its place." 

"It seems to show that someone knows more than we do about what goes on
upon the moor," said Dr. Mortimer. 

"And also," said Holmes, "that someone is not ill-disposed towards you,
since they warn you of danger." 

"Or it may be that they wish, for their own purposes, to scare me
away." 

"Well, of course, that is possible also. I am very much indebted to
you, Dr. Mortimer, for introducing me to a problem which presents
several interesting alternatives. But the practical point which we now
have to decide, Sir Henry, is whether it is or is not advisable for you
to go to Baskerville Hall." 

"Why should I not go?" 

"There seems to be danger." 

"Do you mean danger from this family fiend or do you mean danger from
human beings?" 

"Well, that is what we have to find out." 

"Whichever it is, my answer is fixed. There is no devil in hell, Mr.
Holmes, and there is no man upon earth who can prevent me from going to
the home of my own people, and you may take that to be my final
answer." His dark brows knitted and his face flushed to a dusky red as
he spoke. It was evident that the fiery temper of the Baskervilles was
not extinct in this their last representative. "Meanwhile," said he, "I
have hardly had time to think over all that you have told me. It's a
big thing for a man to have to understand and to decide at one sitting.
I should like to have a quiet hour by myself to make up my mind. Now,
