
"We must send for help, Holmes! We cannot carry him all the way to the
Hall. Good heavens, are you mad?" 

He had uttered a cry and bent over the body. Now he was dancing and
laughing and wringing my hand. Could this be my stern, self-contained
friend? These were hidden fires, indeed! 

"A beard! A beard! The man has a beard!" 

"A beard?" 

"It is not the baronet -- it is -- why, it is my neighbour, the
convict!" 

With feverish haste we had turned the body over, and that dripping
beard was pointing up to the cold, clear moon. There could be no doubt
about the beetling forehead, the sunken animal eyes. It was indeed the
same face which had glared upon me in the light of the candle from over
the rock -- the face of Selden, the criminal. 

Then in an instant it was all clear to me. I remembered how the baronet
had told me that he had handed his old wardrobe to Barrymore. Barrymore
had passed it on in order to help Selden in his escape. Boots, shirt,
cap -- it was all Sir Henry's. The tragedy was still black enough, but
this man had at least deserved death by the laws of his country. I told
Holmes how the matter stood, my heart bubbling over with thankfulness
and joy. 

"Then the clothes have been the poor devil's death," said he. "It is
clear enough that the hound has been laid on from some article of Sir
Henry's -- the boot which was abstracted in the hotel, in all
probability -- and so ran this man down. There is one very singular
thing, however: How came Selden, in the darkness, to know that the
hound was on his trail?" 

"He heard him." 

"To hear a hound upon the moor would not work a hard man like this
convict into such a paroxysm of terror that he would risk recapture by
screaming wildly for help. By his cries he must have run a long way
after he knew the animal was on his track. How did he know?" 

"A greater mystery to me is why this hound, presuming that all our
conjectures are correct -- " 

"I presume nothing." 

"Well, then, why this hound should be loose to-night. I suppose that it
does not always run loose upon the moor. Stapleton would not let it go
unless he had reason to think that Sir Henry would be there." 

"My difficulty is the more formidable of the two, for I think that we
shall very shortly get an explanation of yours, while mine may remain
forever a mystery. The question now is, what shall we do with this poor
wretch's body? We cannot leave it here to the foxes and the ravens." 

"I suggest that we put it in one of the huts until we can communicate
with the police." 

