should I stay here alone?" 

"Because it is your post of duty. Because you gave me your word that
you would do as you were told, and I tell you to stay." 

"All right, then, I'll stay." 

"One more direction! I wish you to drive to Merripit House Send back
your trap, however, and let them know that you intend to walk home." 

"To walk across the moor?" 

"Yes." 

"But that is the very thing which you have so often cautioned me not to
do." 

"This time you may do it with safety. If I had not every confidence in
your nerve and courage I would not suggest it, but it is essential that
you should do it." 

"Then I will do it." 

"And as you value your life do not go across the moor in any direction
save along the straight path which leads from Merripit House to the
Grimpen Road, and is your natural way home." 

"I will do just what you say." 

"Very good. I should be glad to get away as soon after breakfast as
possible, so as to reach London in the afternoon." 

I was much astounded by this programme, though I remembered that Holmes
had said to Stapleton on the night before that his visit would
terminate next day. It had not crossed my mind however, that he would
wish me to go with him, nor could I understand how we could both be
absent at a moment which he himself declared to be critical. There was
nothing for it, however, but implicit obedience; so we bade good-bye to
our rueful friend, and a couple of hours afterwards we were at the
station of Coombe Tracey and had dispatched the trap upon its return
journey. A small boy was waiting upon the platform. 

"Any orders, sir?" 

"You will take this train to town, Cartwright. The moment you arrive
you will send a wire to Sir Henry Baskerville, in my name, to say that
if he finds the pocketbook which I have dropped he is to send it by
registered post to Baker Street." 

"Yes, sir." 

"And ask at the station office if there is a message for me." 

The boy returned with a telegram, which Holmes handed to me. It ran: 

Wire received. Coming down with unsigned warrant. Arrive five-forty. 

Lestrade. 
"That is in answer to mine of this morning. He is the best of the
professionals, I think, and we may need his assistance. Now, Watson, I
