they were all mottled with bruises. "But this is nothing -- nothing! It
is my mind and soul that he has tortured and defiled. I could endure it
all, ill-usage, solitude, a life of deception, everything, as long as I
could still cling to the hope that I had his love, but now I know that
in this also I have been his dupe and his tool." She broke into
passionate sobbing as she spoke. 

"You bear him no good will, madam," said Holmes. "Tell us then where we
shall find him. If you have ever aided him in evil, help us now and so
atone." 

"There is but one place where he can have fled," she answered. "There
is an old tin mine on an island in the heart of the mire. It was there
that he kept his hound and there also he had made preparations so that
he might have a refuge. That is where he would fly." 

The fog-bank lay like white wool against the window. Holmes held the
lamp towards it. 

"See," said he. "No one could find his way into the Grimpen Mire
to-night." 

She laughed and clapped her hands. Her eyes and teeth gleamed with
fierce merriment 

"He may find his way in, but never out," she cried. "How can he see the
guiding wands to-night? We planted them together, he and I, to mark the
pathway through the mire. Oh, if I could only have plucked them out
to-day. Then indeed you would have had him at your mercy!" 

It was evident to us that all pursuit was in vain until the fog had
lifted. Meanwhile we left Lestrade in possession of the house while
Holmes and I went back with the baronet to Baskerville Hall. The story
of the Stapletons could no longer be withheld from him, but he took the
blow bravely when he learned the truth about the woman whom he had
loved. But the shock of the night's adventures had shattered his
nerves, and before morning he lay delirious in a high fever under the
care of Dr. Mortimer. The two of them were destined to travel together
round the world before Sir Henry had become once more the hale, hearty
man that he had been before he became master of that ill-omened estate. 

And now I come rapidly to the conclusion of this singular narrative, in
which I have tried to make the reader share those dark fears and vague
surmises which clouded our lives so long and ended in so tragic a
manner. On the morning after the death of the hound the fog had lifted
and we were guided by Mrs. Stapleton to the point where they had found
a pathway through the bog. It helped us to realize the horror of this
woman's life when we saw the eagerness and joy with which she laid us
on her husband's track. We left her standing upon the thin peninsula of
firm, peaty soil which tapered out into the widespread bog. From the
end of it a small wand planted here and there showed where the path
zigzagged from tuft to tuft of rushes among those green-scummed pits
and foul quagmires which barred the way to the stranger. Rank reeds and
lush, slimy water-plants sent an odour of decay and a heavy miasmatic
vapour onto our faces, while a false step plunged us more than once
thigh-deep into the dark, quivering mire, which shook for yards in soft
undulations around our feet. Its tenacious grip plucked at our heels as
we walked, and when we sank into it it was as if some malignant hand
was tugging us down into those obscene depths, so grim and purposeful
was the clutch in which it held us. Once only we saw a trace that
