suffered something to atone for them. And then I thought of that other
one -- the face in the cab, the figure against the moon. Was he also
out in that deluged -- the unseen watcher, the man of darkness? In the
evening I put on my waterproof and I walked far upon the sodden moor,
full of dark imaginings, the rain beating upon my face and the wind
whistling about my ears. God help those who wander into the great mire
now, for even the firm uplands are becoming a morass. I found the black
tor upon which I had seen the solitary watcher, and from its craggy
summit I looked out myself across the melancholy downs. Rain squalls
drifted across their russet face, and the heavy, slate-coloured clouds
hung low over the landscape, trailing in gray wreaths down the sides of
the fantastic hills. In the distant hollow on the left, half hidden by
the mist, the two thin towers of Baskerville Hall rose above the trees.
They were the only signs of human life which I could see, save only
those prehistoric huts which lay thickly upon the slopes of the hills.
Nowhere was there any trace of that lonely man whom I had seen on the
same spot two nights before. 

As I walked back I was overtaken by Dr. Mortimer driving in his
dog-cart over a rough moorland track which led from the outlying
farmhouse of Foulmire. He has been very attentive to us, and hardly a
day has passed that he has not called at the Hall to see how we were
getting on. He insisted upon my climbing into his dog-cart, and he gave
me a lift homeward. I found him much troubled over the disappearance of
his little spaniel. It had wandered on to the moor and had never come
back. I gave him such consolation as I might, but I thought of the pony
on the Grimpen Mire, and I do not fancy that he will see his little dog
again. 

"By the way, Mortimer," said I as we jolted along the rough road, "I
suppose there are few people living within driving distance of this
whom you do not know?" 

"Hardly any, I think." 

"Can you, then, tell me the name of any woman whose initials are L.
L.?" 

He thought for a few minutes. 

"No," said he. "There are a few gipsies and labouring folk for whom I
can't answer, but among the farmers or gentry there is no one whose
initials are those. Wait a bit though," he added after a pause. "There
is Laura Lyons -- her initials are L. L. -- but she lives in Coombe
Tracey." 

"Who is she?" I asked. 

"She is Frankland's daughter." 

"What! Old Frankland the crank?" 

"Exactly. She married an artist named Lyons, who came sketching on the
moor. He proved to be a blackguard and deserted her. The fault from
what I hear may not have been entirely on one side. Her father refused
to have anything to do with her because she had married without his
consent and perhaps for one or two other reasons as well. So, between
the old sinner and the young one the girl has had a pretty bad time." 

"How does she live?" 
