woman." 

"We must ask about this right away." He rang the bell and asked
Barrymore whether he could account for our experience. It seemed to me
that the pallid features of the butler turned a shade paler still as he
listened to his master's question. 

"There are only two women in the house, Sir Henry," he answered. "One
is the scullery-maid, who sleeps in the other wing. The other is my
wife, and I can answer for it that the sound could not have come from
her." 

And yet he lied as he said it, for it chanced that after breakfast I
met Mrs. Barrymore in the long corridor with the sun full upon her
face. She was a large, impassive, heavy-featured woman with a stern set
expression of mouth. But her telltale eyes were red and glanced at me
from between swollen lids. It was she, then, who wept in the night, and
if she did so her husband must know it. Yet he had taken the obvious
risk of discovery in declaring that it was not so. Why had he done
this? And why did she weep so bitterly? Already round this pale-faced,
handsome, black-bearded man there was gathering an atmosphere of
mystery and of gloom. It was he who had been the first to discover the
body of Sir Charles, and we had only his word for all the circumstances
which led up to the old man's death. Was it possible that it was
Barrymore, after all, whom we had seen in the cab in Regent Street? The
beard might well have been the same. The cabman had described a
somewhat shorter man, but such an impression might easily have been
erroneous. How could I settle the point forever? Obviously the first
thing to do was to see the Grimpen postmaster and find whether the test
telegram had really been placed in Barrymore's own hands. Be the answer
what it might, I should at least have something to report to Sherlock
Holmes. 

Sir Henry had numerous papers to examine after breakfast, so that the
time was propitious for my excursion. It was a pleasant walk of four
miles along the edge of the moor, leading me at last to a small gray
hamlet, in which two larger buildings, which proved to be the inn and
the house of Dr. Mortimer, stood high above the rest. The postmaster,
who was also the village grocer, had a clear recollection of the
telegram. 

"Certainly, sir," said he, "I had the telegram delivered to Mr.
Barrymore exactly as directed." 

"Who delivered it?" 

"My boy here. James, you delivered that telegram to Mr. Barrymore at
the Hall last week, did you not?" 

"Yes, father, I delivered it." 

"Into his own hands?" I asked. 

"Well, he was up in the loft at the time, so that I could not put it
into his own hands, but I gave it into Mrs. Barrymore's hands, and she
promised to deliver it at once." 

"Did you see Mr. Barrymore?" 

"No, sir; I tell you he was in the loft." 
