"Are you? Then your wish is easily granted, for there is your first
sight of the moor," said Dr. Mortimer, pointing out of the carriage
window. 

Over the green squares of the fields and the low curve of a wood there
rose in the distance a gray, melancholy hill, with a strange jagged
summit, dim and vague in the distance, like some fantastic landscape in
a dream. Baskerville sat for a long time his eyes fixed upon it, and I
read upon his eager face how much it meant to him, this first sight of
that strange spot where the men of his blood had held sway so long and
left their mark so deep. There he sat, with his tweed suit and his
American accent, in the corner of a prosaic railway-carriage, and yet
as I looked at his dark and expressive face I felt more than ever how
true a descendant he was of that long line of high-blooded, fiery, and
masterful men. There were pride, valour, and strength in his thick
brows, his sensitive nostrils, and his large hazel eyes. If on that
forbidding moor a difficult and dangerous quest should lie before us,
this was at least a comrade for whom one might venture to take a risk
with the certainty that he would bravely share it. 

The train pulled up at a small wayside station and we all descended.
Outside, beyond the low, white fence, a wagonette with a pair of cobs
was waiting. Our coming was evidently a great event, for station-master
and porters clustered round us to carry out our luggage. It was a
sweet, simple country spot, but I was surprised to observe that by the
gate there stood two soldierly men in dark uniforms who leaned upon
their short rifles and glanced keenly at us as we passed. The coachman,
a hardfaced, gnarled little fellow, saluted Sir Henry Baskerville, and
in a few minutes we were flying swiftly down the broad, white road.
Rolling pasture lands curved upward on either side of us, and old
gabled houses peeped out from amid the thick green foliage, but behind
the peaceful and sunlit countryside there rose ever, dark against the
evening sky, the long, gloomy curve of the moor, broken by the jagged
and sinister hills. 

The wagonette swung round into a side road, and we curved upward
through deep lanes worn by centuries of wheels, high banks on either
side, heavy with dripping moss and fleshy hart's-tongue ferns. Bronzing
bracken and mottled bramble gleamed in the light of the sinking sun.
Still steadily rising, we passed over a narrow granite bridge and
skirted a noisy stream which gushed swiftly down, foaming and roaring
amid the gray boulders. Both road and stream wound up through a valley
dense with scrub oak and fir. At every turn Baskerville gave an
exclamation of delight, looking eagerly about him and asking countless
questions. To his eyes all seemed beautiful, but to me a tinge of
melancholy lay upon the countryside, which bore so clearly the mark of
the waning year. Yellow leaves carpeted the lanes and fluttered down
upon us as we passed. The rattle of our wheels died away as we drove
through drifts of rotting vegetation -- sad gifts, as it seemed to me,
for Nature to throw before the carriage of the returning heir of the
Baskervilles. 

"Halloa!" cried Dr. Mortimer, "what is this?" 

A steep curve of heath-clad land, an outlying spur of the moor, lay in
front of us. On the summit, hard and clear like an equestrian statue
upon its pedestal, was a mounted soldier, dark and stern, his rifle
poised ready over his forearm. He was watching the road along which we
travelled. 

