"What are you doing here, Barrymore?" 

"Nothing, sir." His agitation was so great that he could hardly speak,
and the shadows sprang up and down from the shaking of his candle. "It
was the window, sir. I go round at night to see that they are
fastened." 

"On the second floor?" 

"Yes, sir, all the windows." 

"Look here, Barrymore," said Sir Henry sternly, "we have made up our
minds to have the truth out of you, so it will save you trouble to tell
it sooner rather than later. Come, now! No lies! What were you doing at
that window? ' 

The fellow looked at us in a helpless way, and he wrung his hands
together like one who is in the last extremity of doubt and misery. 

"I was doing no harm, sir. I was holding a candle to the window." 

"And why were you holding a candle to the window?" 

"Don't ask me, Sir Henry -- don't ask me! I give you my word, sir, that
it is not my secret, and that I cannot tell it. If it concerned no one
but myself I would not try to keep it from you." 

A sudden idea occurred to me, and I took the candle from the trembling
hand of the butler. 

"He must have been holding it as a signal," said I. "Let us see if
there is any answer." I held it as he had done, and stared out into the
darkness of the night. Vaguely I could discern the black bank of the
trees and the lighter expanse of the moor, for the moon was behind the
clouds. And then I gave a cry of exultation, for a tiny pin-point of
yellow light had suddenly transfixed the dark veil, and glowed steadily
in the centre of the black square framed by the window. 

"There it is!" I cried. 

"No, no, sir, it is nothing -- nothing at all!" the butler broke in; "I
assure you, sir -- " 

"Move your light across the window, Watson!" cried the baronet. "See,
the other moves also! Now, you rascal, do you deny that it is a signal?
Come, speak up! Who is your confederate out yonder, and what is this
conspiracy that is going on?" 

The man's face became openly defiant. 

"It is my business, and not yours. I will not tell." 

"Then you leave my employment right away." 

"Very good, sir. If I must I must." 

"And you go in disgrace. By thunder, you may well be ashamed of
yourself. Your family has lived with mine for over a hundred years
under this roof, and here I find you deep in some dark plot against
me." 
