visitor," said she. "It cannot much matter to him whether it is early
or late for the orchids. But you will come on, will you not, and see
Merripit House?" 

A short walk brought us to it, a bleak moorland house, once the farm of
some grazier in the old prosperous days, but now put into repair and
turned into a modern dwelling. An orchard surrounded it, but the trees,
as is usual upon the moor, were stunted and nipped, and the effect of
the whole place was mean and melancholy. We were admitted by a strange,
wizened, rusty-coated old manservant, who seemed in keeping with the
house. Inside, however, there were large rooms furnished with an
elegance in which I seemed to recognize the taste of the lady. As I
looked from their windows at the interminable granite-flecked moor
rolling unbroken to the farthest horizon I could not but marvel at what
could have brought this highly educated man and this beautiful woman to
live in such a place. 

"Queer spot to choose, is it not?" said he as if in answer to my
thought. "And yet we manage to make ourselves fairly happy, do we not,
Beryl?" 

"Quite happy," said she, but there was no ring of conviction in her
words. 

"I had a school," said Stapleton. "It was in the north country. The
work to a man of my temperament was mechanical and uninteresting, but
the privilege of living with youth, of helping to mould those young
minds, and of impressing them with one's own character and ideals was
very dear to me. However, the fates were against us. A serious epidemic
broke out in the school and three of the boys died. It never recovered
from the blow, and much of my capital was irretrievably swallowed up.
And yet, if it were not for the loss of the charming companionship of
the boys, I could rejoice over my own misfortune, for, with my strong
tastes for botany and zoology, I find an unlimited field of work here,
and my sister is as devoted to Nature as I am. All this, Dr. Watson,
has been brought upon your head by your expression as you surveyed the
moor out of our window." 

"It certainly did cross my mind that it might be a little dull -- less
for you, perhaps, than for your sister." 

"No, no, I am never dull," said she quickly. 

"We have books, we have our studies, and we have interesting
neighbours. Dr. Mortimer is a most learned man in his own line. Poor
Sir Charles was also an admirable companion. We knew him well and miss
him more than I can tell. Do you think that I should intrude if I were
to call this afternoon and make the acquaintance of Sir Henry?" 

"I am sure that he would be delighted." 

"Then perhaps you would mention that I propose to do so. We may in our
humble way do something to make things more easy for him until he
becomes accustomed to his new surroundings. Will you come upstairs, Dr.
Watson, and inspect my collection of Lepidoptera? I think it is the
most complete one in the south-west of England. By the time that you
have looked through them lunch will be almost ready." 

But I was eager to get back to my charge. The melancholy of the moor,
the death of the unfortunate pony, the weird sound which had been
