one, but sooner or later we must come upon the right." 

We had a pleasant luncheon in which little was said of the business
which had brought us together. It was in the private sitting-room to
which we afterwards repaired that Holmes asked Baskerville what were
his intentions. 

"To go to Baskerville Hall." 

"And when?" 

"At the end of the week." 

"On the whole," said Holmes, "I think that your decision is a wise one.
I have ample evidence that you are being dogged in London, and amid the
millions of this great city it is difficult to discover who these
people are or what their object can be. If their intentions are evil
they might do you a mischief, and we should be powerless to prevent it.
You did not know, Dr. Mortimer, that you were followed this morning
from my house?" 

Dr. Mortimer started violently. 

"Followed! By whom?" 

"That, unfortunately, is what I cannot tell you. Have you among your
neighbours or acquaintances on Dartmoor any man with a black, full
beard?" 

"No -- or, let me see -- why, yes. Barrymore, Sir Charles's butler, is
a man with a full, black beard." 

"Ha! Where is Barrymore?" 

"He is in charge of the Hall." 

"We had best ascertain if he is really there, or if by any possibility
he might be in London." 

"How can you do that?" 

"Give me a telegraph form. "Is all ready for Sir Henry?" That will do.
Address to Mr. Barrymore, Baskerville Hall. What is the nearest
telegraph-office? Grimpen. Very good, we will send a second wire to the
postmaster, Grimpen: "Telegram to Mr. Barrymore to be delivered into
his own hand. If absent, please return wire to Sir Henry Baskerville,
Northumberland Hotel." That should let us know before evening whether
Barrymore is at his post in Devonshire or not." 

"That's so," said Baskerville. "By the way, Dr. Mortimer, who is this
Barrymore, anyhow?" 

"He is the son of the old caretaker, who is dead. They have looked
after the Hall for four generations now. So far as I know, he and his
wife are as respectable a couple as any in the county." 

"At the same time," said Baskerville, "it's clear enough that so long
as there are none of the family at the Hall these people have a mighty
fine home and nothing to do." 

