over her, and he gave her to understand that in the event of her
obtaining a divorce from her husband he would marry her. His plans were
suddenly brought to a head by his knowledge that Sir Charles was about
to leave the Hall on the advice of Dr. Mortimer, with whose opinion he
himself pretended to coincide. He must act at once, or his victim might
get beyond his power. He therefore put pressure upon Mrs. Lyons to
write this letter, imploring the old man to give her an interview on
the evening before his departure for London. He then, by a specious
argument, prevented her from going, and so had the chance for which he
had waited. 

"Driving back in the evening from Coombe Tracey he was in time to get
his hound, to treat it with his infernal paint, and to bring the beast
round to the gate at which he had reason to expect that he would find
the old gentleman waiting. The dog, incited by its master, sprang over
the wicket-gate and pursued the unfortunate baronet, who fled screaming
down the yew alley. In that gloomy tunnel it must indeed have been a
dreadful sight to see that huge black creature, with its flaming jaws
and blazing eyes, bounding after its victim. He fell dead at the end of
the alley from heart disease and terror. The hound had kept upon the
grassy border while the baronet had run down the path, so that no track
but the man's was visible. On seeing him lying still the creature had
probably approached to sniff at him, but finding him dead had turned
away again. It was then that it left the print which was actually
observed by Dr. Mortimer. The hound was called off and hurried away to
its lair in the Grimpen Mire, and a mystery was left which puzzled the
authorities, alarmed the countryside, and finally brought the case
within the scope of our observation. 

"So much for the death of Sir Charles Baskerville. You perceive the
devilish cunning of it, for really it would be almost impossible to
make a case against the real murderer. His only accomplice was one who
could never give him away, and the grotesque, inconceivable nature of
the device only served to make it more effective. Both of the women
concerned in the case, Mrs. Stapleton and Mrs. Laura Lyons, were left
with a strong suspicion against Stapleton. Mrs. Stapleton knew that he
had designs upon the old man, and also of the existence of the hound.
Mrs. Lyons knew neither of these things, but had been impressed by the
death occurring at the time of an uncancelled appointment which was
only known to him. However, both of them were under his influence, and
he had nothing to fear from them. The first half of his task was
successfully accomplished but the more difficult still remained. 

"It is possible that Stapleton did not know of the existence of an heir
in Canada. In any case he would very soon learn it from his friend Dr.
Mortimer, and he was told by the latter all details about the arrival
of Henry Baskerville. Stapleton's first idea was that this young
stranger from Canada might possibly be done to death in London without
coming down to Devonshire at all. He distrusted his wife ever since she
had refused to help him in laying a trap for the old man, and he dared
not leave her long out of his sight for fear he should lose his
influence over her. It was for this reason that he took her to London
with him. They lodged, I find, at the Mexborough Private Hotel, in
Craven Street, which was actually one of those called upon by my agent
in search of evidence. Here he kept his wife imprisoned in her room
while he, disguised in a beard, followed Dr. Mortimer to Baker Street
and afterwards to the station and to the Northumberland Hotel. His wife
had some inkling of his plans; but she had such a fear of her husband
-- a fear founded upon brutal ill-treatment -- that she dare not write
to warn the man whom she knew to be in danger. If the letter should
