"Exactly. I have no doubt that you and I could carry it so far. Halloa,
Watson, what's this? It's the man himself, by all that's wonderful and
audacious! Not a word to show yow suspicions -- not a word, or my plans
crumble to the ground." 

A figure was approaching us over the moor, and I saw the dull red glow
of a cigar. The moon shone upon him, and I could distinguish the dapper
shape and jaunty walk of the naturalist. He stopped when he saw us, and
then came on again. 

"Why, Dr. Watson, that's not you, is it? You are the last man that I
should have expected to see out on the moor at this time of night. But,
dear me, what's this? Somebody hurt? Not -- don't tell me that it is
our friend Sir Henry!" He hurried past me and stooped over the dead
man. I heard a sharp intake of his breath and the cigar fell from his
fingers. 

"Who -- who's this?" he stammered. 

"It is Selden, the man who escaped from Princetown." 

Stapleton turned a ghastly face upon us, but by a supreme effort he had
overcome his amazement and his disappointment. He looked sharply from
Holmes to me. 

"Dear me! What a very shocking affair! How did he die?" 

"He appears to have broken his neck by falling over these rocks. My
friend and I were strolling on the moor when we heard a cry." 

"I heard a cry also. That was what brought me out. I was uneasy about
Sir Henry." 

"Why about Sir Henry in particular?" I could not help asking. 

"Because I had suggested that he should come over. When he did not come
I was surprised, and I naturally became alarmed for his safety when I
heard cries upon the moor. By the way" -- his eyes darted again from my
face to Holmes's -- "did you hear anything else besides a cry?" 

"No," said Holmes; "did you?" 

"No." 

"What do you mean, then?" 

"Oh, you know the stories that the peasants tell about a phantom hound,
and so on. It is said to be heard at night upon the moor. I was
wondering if there were any evidence of such a sound to-night." 

"We heard nothing of the kind," said I. 

"And what is your theory of this poor fellow's death?" 

"I have no doubt that anxiety and exposure have driven him off his
head. He has rushed about the moor in a crazy state and eventually
fallen over here and broken his neck." 

"That seems the most reasonable theory," said Stapleton, and he gave a
sigh which I took to indicate his relief. "What do you think about it,
