
"Of course you know the legend of the fiend dog which haunts the
family?" 

"I have heard it." 

"It is extraordinary how credulous the peasants are about here! Any
number of them are ready to swear that they have seen such a creature
upon the moor." He spoke with a smile, but I seemed to read in his eyes
that he took the matter more seriously. "The story took a great hold
upon the imagination of Sir Charles, and I have no doubt that it led to
his tragic end." 

"But how?" 

"His nerves were so worked up that the appearance of any dog might have
had a fatal effect upon his diseased heart. I fancy that he really did
see something of the kind upon that last night in the yew alley. I
feared that some disaster might occur, for I was very fond of the old
man, and I knew that his heart was weak." 

"How did you know that?" 

"My friend Mortimer told me." 

"You think, then, that some dog pursued Sir Charles, and that he died
of fright in consequence?" 

"Have you any better explanation?" 

"I have not come to any conclusion." 

"Has Mr. Sherlock Holmes?" 

The words took away my breath for an instant but a glance at the placid
face and steadfast eyes of my companion showed that no surprise was
intended. 

"It is useless for us to pretend that we do not know you, Dr. Watson,"
said he. "The records of your detective have reached us here, and you
could not celebrate him without being known yourself. When Mortimer
told me your name he could not deny your identity. If you are here,
then it follows that Mr. Sherlock Holmes is interesting himself in the
matter, and I am naturally curious to know what view he may take." 

"I am afraid that I cannot answer that question." 

"May I ask if he is going to honour us with a visit himself?" 

"He cannot leave town at present. He has other cases which engage his
attention." 

"What a pity! He might throw some light on that which is so dark to us.
But as to your own researches, if there is any possible way in which I
can be of service to you I trust that you will command me. If I had any
indication of the nature of your suspicions or how you propose to
investigate the case, I might perhaps even now give you some aid or
advice." 

"I assure you that I am simply here upon a visit to my friend, Sir
