passed that we have not seen something of the brother and sister. They
dine here to-night, and there is some talk of our going to them next
week. One would imagine that such a match would be very welcome to
Stapleton, and yet I have more than once caught a look of the strongest
disapprobation in his face when Sir Henry has been paying some
attention to his sister. He is much attached to her, no doubt, and
would lead a lonely life without her, but it would seem the height of
selfishness if he were to stand in the way of her making so brilliant a
marriage. Yet I am certain that he does not wish their intimacy to
ripen into love, and I have several times observed that he has taken
pains to prevent them from being tete-a-tete. By the way, your
instructions to me never to allow Sir Henry to go out alone will become
very much more onerous if a love affair were to be added to our other
difficulties. My popularity would soon suffer if I were to carry out
your orders to the letter. 

The other day -- Thursday, to be more exact -- Dr. Mortimer lunched
with us. He has been excavating a barrow at Long Down and has got a
prehistoric skull which fills him with great joy. Never was there such
a single-minded enthusiast as he! The Stapletons came in afterwards,
and the good doctor took us all to the yew alley at Sir Henry's request
to show us exactly how everything occurred upon that fatal night. It is
a long, dismal walk, the yew alley, between two high walls of clipped
hedge, with a narrow band of grass upon either side. At the far end is
an old tumble-down summer-house. Halfway down is the moor-gate, where
the old gentleman left his cigar-ash. It is a white wooden gate with a
latch. Beyond it lies the wide moor. I remembered your theory of the
affair and tried to picture all that had occurred. As the old man stood
there he saw something coming across the moor, something which
terrified him so that he lost his wits and ran and ran until he died of
sheer horror and exhaustion. There was the long, gloomy tunnel down
which he fled. And from what? A sheep-dog of the moor? Or a spectral
hound, black, silent, and monstrous? Was there a human agency in the
matter? Did the pale, watchful Barrymore know more than he cared to
say? It was all dim and vague, but always there is the dark shadow of
crime behind it. 

One other neighbour I have met since I wrote last. This is Mr.
Frankland, of Lafter Hall, who lives some four miles to the south of
us. He is an elderly man, red-faced, white-haired, and choleric. His
passion is for the British law, and he has spent a large fortune in
litigation. He fights for the mere pleasure of fighting and is equally
ready to take up either side of a question, so that it is no wonder
that he has found it a costly amusement. Sometimes he will shut up a
right of way and defy the parish to make him open it. At others he will
with his own hands tear down some other man's gate and declare that a
path has existed there from time immemorial, defying the owner to
prosecute him for trespass. He is learned in old manorial and communal
rights, and he applies his knowledge sometimes in favour of the
villagers of Fernworthy and sometimes against them, so that he is
periodically either carried in triumph down the village street or else
burned in effigy, according to his latest exploit. He is said to have
about seven lawsuits upon his hands at present, which will probably
swallow up the remainder of his fortune and so draw his sting and leave
him harmless for the future. Apart from the law he seems a kindly,
good-natured person, and I only mention him because you were particular
that I should send some description of the people who surround us. He
is curiously employed at present, for, being an amateur astronomer, he
has an excellent telescope, with which he lies upon the roof of his own
house and sweeps the moor all day in the hope of catching a glimpse of
