
"If you didn't see him, how do you know he was in the loft?" 

"Well, surely his own wife ought to know where he is," said the
postmaster testily. "Didn't he get the telegram? If there is any
mistake it is for Mr. Barrymore himself to complain." 

It seemed hopeless to pursue the inquiry any farther, but it was clear
that in spite of Holmes's ruse we had no proof that Barrymore had not
been in London all the time. Suppose that it were so -- suppose that
the same man had been the last who had seen Sir Charles alive, and the
first to dog the new heir when he returned to England. What then? Was
he the agent of others or had he some sinister design of his own? What
interest could he have in persecuting the Baskerville family? I thought
of the strange warning clipped out of the leading article of the Times.
Was that his work or was it possibly the doing of someone who was bent
upon counteracting his schemes? The only conceivable motive was that
which had been suggested by Sir Henry, that if the family could be
scared away a comfortable and permanent home would be secured for the
Barrymores. But surely such an explanation as that would be quite
inadequate to account for the deep and subtle scheming which seemed to
be weaving an invisible net round the young baronet. Holmes himself had
said that no more complex case had come to him in all the long series
of his sensational investigations. I prayed, as I walked back along the
gray, lonely road, that my friend might soon be freed from his
preoccupations and able to come down to take this heavy burden of
responsibility from my shoulders. 

Suddenly my thoughts were interrupted by the sound of running feet
behind me and by a voice which called me by name. I turned, expecting
to see Dr. Mortimer, but to my surprise it was a stranger who was
pursuing me. He was a small, slim, clean-shaven, prim-faced man,
flaxen-haired and leanjawed, between thirty and forty years of age,
dressed in a gray suit and wearing a straw hat. A tin box for botanical
specimens hung over his shoulder and he carried a green butterfly-net
in one of his hands. 

"You will, I am sure, excuse my presumption, Dr. Watson," said he as he
came panting up to where I stood. "Here on the moor we are homely folk
and do not wait for formal introductions. You may possibly have heard
my name from our mutual friend, Mortimer. I am Stapleton, of Merripit
House." 

"Your net and box would have told me as much," said I, "for I knew that
Mr. Stapleton was a naturalist. But how did you know me?" 

"I have been calling on Mortimer, and he pointed you out to me from the
window of his surgery as you passed. As our road lay the same way I
thought that I would overtake you and introduce myself. I trust that
Sir Henry is none the worse for his journey?" 

"He is very well, thank you." 

"We were all rather afraid that after the sad death of Sir Charles the
new baronet might refuse to live here. It is asking much of a wealthy
man to come down and bury himself in a place of this kind, but I need
not tell you that it means a very great deal to the countryside. Sir
Henry has, I suppose, no superstitious fears in the matter?" 

"I do not think that it is likely." 
