"He had left his own marks all over that small patch of gravel. I could
discern no others." 

Sherlock Holmes struck his hand against his knee with an impatient
gesture. 

"If I had only been there!" he cried. "It is evidently a case of
extraordinary interest, and one which presented immense opportunities
to the scientific expert. That gravel page upon which I might have read
so much has been long ere this smudged by the rain and defaced by the
clogs of curious peasants. Oh, Dr. Mortimer, Dr. Mortimer, to think
that you should not have called me in! You have indeed much to answer
for." 

"I could not call you in, Mr. Holmes, without disclosing these facts to
the world, and I have already given my reasons for not wishing to do
so. Besides, besides -- " 

"Why do you hesitate?" 

"There is a realm in which the most acute and most experienced of
detectives is helpless." 

"You mean that the thing is supernatural?" 

"I did not positively say so." 

"No, but you evidently think it." 

"Since the tragedy, Mr. Holmes, there have come to my ears several
incidents which are hard to reconcile with the settled order of
Nature." 

"For example?" 

"I find that before the terrible event occurred several people had seen
a creature upon the moor which corresponds with this Baskerville demon,
and which could not possibly be any animal known to science. They all
agreed that it was a huge creature, luminous, ghastly, and spectral. I
have cross-examined these men, one of them a hard-headed countryman,
one a farrier, and one a moorland farmer, who all tell the same story
of this dreadful apparition, exactly corresponding to the hell-hound of
the legend. I assure you that there is a reign of terror in the
district, and that it is a hardy man who will cross the moor at night." 

"And you, a trained man of science, believe it to be supernatural?" 

"I do not know what to believe." 

Holmes shrugged his shoulders. 

"I have hitherto confined my investigations to this world," said he.
"In a modest way I have combated evil, but to take on the Father of
Evil himself would, perhaps, be too ambitious a task. Yet you must
admit that the footmark is material." 

"The original hound was material enough to tug a man's throat out, and
yet he was diabolical as well." 

"I see that you have quite gone over to the supernaturalists. But now,
