under which I crouched. Looking over, I saw the naturalist pause at the
door of an out-house in the corner of the orchard. A key turned in a
lock, and as he passed in there was a curious scuffling noise from
within. He was only a minute or so inside, and then I heard the key
turn once more and he passed me and reentered the house. I saw him
rejoin his guest, and I crept quietly back to where my companions were
waiting to tell them what I had seen. 

"You say, Watson, that the lady is not there?" Holmes asked when I had
finished my report. 

"No." 

"Where can she be, then, since there is no light in any other room
except the kitchen?" 

"I cannot think where she is." 

I have said that over the great Grimpen Mire there hung a dense, white
fog. It was drifting slowly in our direction and banked itself up like
a wall on that side of us, low but thick and well defined. The moon
shone on it, and it looked like a great shimmering ice-field, with the
heads of the distant tors as rocks borne upon its surface. Holmes's
face was turned towards it, and he muttered impatiently as he watched
its sluggish drift. 

"It's moving towards us, Watson." 

"Is that serious?" 

"Very serious, indeed -- the one thing upon earth which could have
disarranged my plans. He can't be very long, now. It is already ten
o'clock. Our success and even his life may depend upon his coming out
before the fog is over the path." 

The night was clear and fine above us. The stars shone cold and bright,
while a half-moon bathed the whole scene in a soft, uncertain light.
Before us lay the dark bulk of the house, its serrated roof and
bristling chimneys hard outlined against the silver-spangled sky. Broad
bars of golden light from the lower windows stretched across the
orchard and the moor. One of them was suddenly shut off. The servants
had left the kitchen. There only remained the lamp in the dining-room
where the two men, the murderous host and the unconscious guest, still
chatted over their cigars. 

Every minute that white woolly plain which covered one-half of the moor
was drifting closer and closer to the house. Already the first thin
wisps of it were curling across the golden square of the lighted
window. The farther wall of the orchard was already invisible, and the
trees were standing out of a swirl of white vapour. As we watched it
the fog-wreaths came crawling round both corners of the house and
rolled slowly into one dense bank on which the upper floor and the roof
floated like a strange ship upon a shadowy sea. Holmes struck his hand
passionately upon the rock in front of us and stamped his feet in his
impatience. 

"If he isn't out in a quarter of an hour the path will be covered. In
half an hour we won't be able to see our hands in front of us." 

"Shall we move farther back upon higher ground?" 
