upon his clotted fingers and upon the ghastly pool which widened slowly
from the crushed skull of the victim. And it shone upon something else
which turned our hearts sick and faint within us -- the body of Sir
Henry Baskerville! 

There was no chance of either of us forgetting that peculiar ruddy
tweed suit -- the very one which he had worn on the first morning that
we had seen him in Baker Street. We caught the one clear glimpse of it,
and then the match flickered and went out, even as the hope had gone
out of our souls. Holmes groaned, and his face glimmered white through
the darkness. 

"The brute! the brute!" I cried with clenched hands. "Oh Holmes, I
shall never forgive myself for having left him to his fate." 

"I am more to blame than you, Watson. In order to have my case well
rounded and complete, I have thrown away the life of my client. It is
the greatest blow which has befallen me in my career. But how could I
know -- how could I know -- that he would risk his life alone upon the
moor in the face of all my warnings?" 

"That we should have heard his screams -- my God, those screams! -- and
yet have been unable to save him! Where is this brute of a hound which
drove him to his death? It may be lurking among these rocks at this
instant. And Stapleton, where is he? He shall answer for this deed." 

"He shall. I will see to that. Uncle and nephew have been murdered --
the one frightened to death by the very sight of a beast which he
thought to be supernatural, the other driven to his end in his wild
flight to escape from it. But now we have to prove the connection
between the man and the beast. Save from what we heard, we cannot even
swear to the existence of the latter, since Sir Henry has evidently
died from the fall. But, by heavens, cunning as he is, the fellow shall
be in my power before another day is past!" 

We stood with bitter hearts on either side of the mangled body,
overwhelmed by this sudden and irrevocable disaster which had brought
all our long and weary labours to so piteous an end. Then as the moon
rose we climbed to the top of the rocks over which our poor friend had
fallen, and from the summit we gazed out over the shadowy moor, half
silver and half gloom. Far away, miles off, in the direction of
Grimpen, a single steady yellow light was shining. It could only come
from the lonely abode of the Stapletons. With a bitter curse I shook my
fist at it as I gazed. 

"Why should we not seize him at once?" 

"Our case is not complete. The fellow is wary and cunning to the last
degree. It is not what we know, but what we can prove. If we make one
false move the villain may escape us yet." 

"What can we do?" 

"There will be plenty for us to do to-morrow. To-night we can only
perform the last offices to our poor friend." 

Together we made our way down the precipitous slope and approached the
body, black and clear against the silvered stones. The agony of those
contorted limbs struck me with a spasm of pain and blurred my eyes with
tears. 
