straining away from him with her face averted. He stooped his head to
hers, and she raised one hand as if in protest. Next moment I saw them
spring apart and turn hurriedly round. Stapleton was the cause of the
interruption. He was running wildly towards them, his absurd net
dangling behind him. He gesticulated and almost danced with excitement
in front of the lovers. What the scene meant I could not imagine, but
it seemed to me that Stapleton was abusing Sir Henry, who offered
explanations, which became more angry as the other refused to accept
them. The lady stood by in haughty silence. Finally Stapleton turned
upon his heel and beckoned in a peremptory way to his sister, who,
after an irresolute glance at Sir Henry, walked off by the side of her
brother. The naturalist's angry gestures showed that the lady was
included in his displeasure. The baronet stood for a minute looking
after them, and then he walked slowly back the way that he had come,
his head hanging, the very picture of dejection. 

What all this meant I could not imagine, but I was deeply ashamed to
have witnessed so intimate a scene without my friend's knowledge. I ran
down the hill therefore and met the baronet at the bottom. His face was
flushed with anger and his brows were wrinkled, like one who is at his
wit's ends what to do. 

"Halloa, Watson! Where have you dropped from?" said he. "You don't mean
to say that you came after me in spite of all?" 

I explained everything to him: how I had found it impossible to remain
behind, how I had followed him, and how I had witnessed all that had
occurred. For an instant his eyes blazed at me, but my frankness
disarmed his anger, and he broke at last into a rather rueful laugh. 

"You would have thought the middle of that prairie a fairly safe place
for a man to be private," said he, "but, by thunder, the whole
countryside seems to have been out to see me do my wooing -- and a
mighty poor wooing at that! Where had you engaged a seat?" 

"I was on that hill." 

"Quite in the back row, eh? But her brother was well up to the front.
Did you see him come out on us?" 

"Yes, I did." 

"Did he ever strike you as being crazy -- this brother of hers?" 

"I can't say that he ever did." 

"I dare say not. I always thought him sane enough until to-day, but you
can take it from me that either he or I ought to be in a straitjacket.
What's the matter with me, anyhow? You've lived near me for some weeks,
Watson. Tell me straight, now! Is there anything that would prevent me
from making a good husband to a woman that I loved?" 

"I should say not." 

"He can't object to my worldly position, so it must be myself that he
has this down on. What has he against me? I never hurt man or woman in
my life that I know of. And yet he would not so much as let me touch
the tips of her fingers." 

"Did he say so?" 
