been inquiring for No. 2704," said he. "I've driven my cab this seven
years and never a word of complaint. I came here straight from the Yard
to ask you to your face what you had against me." 

"I have nothing in the world against you, my good man," said Holmes.
"On the contrary, I have half a sovereign for you if you will give me a
clear answer to my questions." 

"Well, I've had a good day and no mistake," said the cabman with a
grin. "What was it you wanted to ask, sir?" 

"First of all your name and address, in case I want you again." 

"John Clayton, 3 Turpey Street, the Borough. My cab is out of Shipley's
Yard, near Waterloo Station." 

Sherlock Holmes made a note of it. 

"Now, Clayton, tell me all about the fare who came and watched this
house at ten o'clock this morning and afterwards followed the two
gentlemen down Regent Street." 

The man looked surprised and a little embarrassed. "Why there's no good
my telling you things, for you seem to know as much as I do already,"
said he. "The truth is that the gentleman told me that he was a
detective and that I was to say nothing about him to anyone." 

"My good fellow; this is a very serious business, and you may find
yourself in a pretty bad position if you try to hide anything from me.
You say that your fare told you that he was a detective?" 

"Yes, he did." 

"When did he say this?" 

"When he left me." 

"Did he say anything more?" 

"He mentioned his name." 

Holmes cast a swift glance of triumph at me. "Oh, he mentioned his
name, did he? That was imprudent. What was the name that he mentioned?" 

"His name," said the cabman, "was Mr. Sherlock Holmes." 

Never have I seen my friend more completely taken aback than by the
cabman's reply. For an instant he sat in silent amazement. Then he
burst into a hearty laugh. 

"A touch, Watson -- an undeniable touch!" said he. "I feel a foil as
quick and supple as my own. He got home upon me very prettily that
time. So his name was Sherlock Holmes, was it?" 

"Yes, sir, that was the gentleman's name." 

"Excellent! Tell me where you picked him up and all that occurred." 

"He hailed me at half-past nine in Trafalgar Square. He said that he
was a detective, and he offered me two guineas if I would do exactly
