Dr. Mortimer, tell me this. If you hold these views why have you come
to consult me at all? You tell me in the same breath that it is useless
to investigate Sir Charles's death, and that you desire me to do it." 

"I did not say that I desired you to do it." 

"Then, how can I assist you?" 

"By advising me as to what I should do with Sir Henry Baskerville, who
arrives at Waterloo Station" -- Dr. Mortimer looked at his watch -- "in
exactly one hour and a quarter." 

"He being the heir?" 

"Yes. On the death of Sir Charles we inquired for this young gentleman
and found that he had been farming in Canada. From the accounts which
have reached us he is an excellent fellow in every way. I speak now not
as a medical man but as a trustee and executor of Sir Charles's will." 

"There is no other claimant, I presume?" 

"None. The only other kinsman whom we have been able to trace was
Rodger Baskerville, the youngest of three brothers of whom poor Sir
Charles was the elder. The second brother, who died young, is the
father of this lad Henry. The third, Rodger, was the black sheep of the
family. He came of the old masterful Baskerville strain and was the
very image, they tell me, of the family picture of old Hugo. He made
England too hot to hold him, fled to Central America, and died there in
1876 of yellow fever. Henry is the last of the Baskervilles. In one
hour and five minutes I meet him at Waterloo Station. I have had a wire
that he arrived at Southampton this morning. Now, Mr. Holmes, what
would you advise me to do with him?" 

"Why should he not go to the home of his fathers?" 

"It seems natural, does it not? And yet, consider that every
Baskerville who goes there meets with an evil fate. I feel sure that if
Sir Charles could have spoken with me before his death he would have
warned me against bringing this, the last of the old race, and the heir
to great wealth, to that deadly place. And yet it cannot be denied that
the prosperity of the whole poor, bleak countryside depends upon his
presence. All the good work which has been done by Sir Charles will
crash to the ground if there is no tenant of the Hall. I fear lest I
should be swayed too much by my own obvious interest in the matter, and
that is why I bring the case before you and ask for your advice." 

Holmes considered for a little time. 

"Put into plain words, the matter is this," said he. "In your opinion
there is a diabolical agency which makes Dartmoor an unsafe abode for a
Baskerville -- that is your opinion?" 

"At least I might go the length of saying that there is some evidence
that this may be so." 

"Exactly. But surely, if your supernatural theory be correct, it could
work the young man evil in London as easily as in Devonshire. A devil
with merely local powers like a parish vestry would be too
inconceivable a thing." 

