voyage home, and that he had used this man's ability to make the
undertaking a success. Fraser, the tutor, died however, and the school
which had begun well sank from disrepute into infamy. The Vandeleurs
found it convenient to change their name to Stapleton, and he brought
the remains of his fortune, his schemes for the future, and his taste
for entomology to the south of England. I learned at the British Museum
that he was a recognized authority upon the subject, and that the name
of Vandeleur has been permanently attached to a certain moth which he
had, in his Yorkshire days, been the first to describe. 

"We now come to that portion of his life which has proved to be of such
intense interest to us. The fellow had evidently made inquiry and found
that only two lives intervened between him and a valuable estate. When
he went to Devonshire his plans were, I believe, exceedingly hazy, but
that he meant mischief from the first is evident from the way in which
he took his wife with him in the character of his sister. The idea of
using her as a decoy was clearly already in his mind, though he may not
have been certain how the details of his plot were to be arranged. He
meant in the end to have the estate, and he was ready to use any tool
or run any risk for that end. His first act was to establish himself as
near to his ancestral home as he could, and his second was to cultivate
a friendship with Sir Charles Baskerville and with the neighbours. 

"The baronet himself told him about the family hound, and so prepared
the way for his own death. Stapleton, as I will continue to call him,
knew that the old man's heart was weak and that a shock would kill him.
So much he had learned from Dr. Mortimer. He had heard also that Sir
Charles was superstitious and had taken this grim legend very
seriously. His ingenious mind instantly suggested a way by which the
baronet could be done to death, and yet it would be hardly possible to
bring home the guilt to the real murderer. 

"Having conceived the idea he proceeded to carry it out with
considerable finesse. An ordinary schemer would have been content to
work with a savage hound. The use of artificial means to make the
creature diabolical was a flash of genius upon his part. The dog he
bought in London from Ross and Mangles, the dealers in Fulham Road. It
was the strongest and most savage in their possession. He brought it
down by the North Devon line and walked a great distance over the moor
so as to get it home without exciting any remarks. He had already on
his insect hunts learned to penetrate the Grimpen Mire, and so had
found a safe hiding-place for the creature. Here he kennelled it and
waited his chance. 

"But it was some time coming. The old gentleman could not be decoyed
outside of his grounds at night. Several times Stapleton lurked about
with his hound, but without avail. It was during these fruitless quests
that he, or rather his ally, was seen by peasants, and that the legend
of the demon dog received a new confirmation. He had hoped that his
wife might lure Sir Charles to his ruin, but here she proved
unexpectedly independent. She would not endeavour to entangle the old
gentleman in a sentimental attachment which might deliver him over to
his enemy. Threats and even, I am sorry to say, blows refused to move
her. She would have nothing to do with it, and for a time Stapleton was
at a deadlock. 

"He found a way out of his difficulties through the chance that Sir
Charles, who had conceived a friendship for him, made him the minister
of his charity in the case of this unfortunate woman, Mrs. Laura Lyons.
By representing himself as a single man he acquired complete influence
