
"The exact date is 1742." Dr. Mortimer drew it from his breast-pocket.
"This family paper was committed to my care by Sir Charles Baskerville,
whose sudden and tragic death some three months ago created so much
excitement in Devonshire. I may say that I was his personal friend as
well as his medical attendant. He was a strong-minded man, sir, shrewd,
practical, and as unimaginative as I am myself. Yet he took this
document very seriously, and his mind was prepared for just such an end
as did eventually overtake him." 

Holmes stretched out his hand for the manuscript and flattened it upon
his knee. 

"You will observe, Watson, the alternative use of the long s and the
short. It is one of several indications which enabled me to fix the
date." 

I looked over his shoulder at the yellow paper and the faded script. At
the head was written: "Baskerville Hall," and below in large, scrawling
figures: "1742." 

"It appears to be a statement of some sort." 

"Yes, it is a statement of a certain legend which runs in the
Baskerville family." 

"But I understand that it is something more modern and practical upon
which you wish to consult me?" 

"Most modern. A most practical, pressing matter, which must be decided
within twenty-four hours. But the manuscript is short and is intimately
connected with the affair. With your permission I will read it to you." 

Holmes leaned back in his chair, placed his finger-tips together, and
closed his eyes, with an air of resignation. Dr. Mortimer turned the
manuscript to the light and read in a high, cracking voice the
following curious, old-world narrative: 

"Of the origin of the Hound of the Baskervilles there have been many
statements, yet as I come in a direct line from Hugo Baskerville, and
as I had the story from my father, who also had it from his, I have set
it down with all belief that it occurred even as is here set forth. And
I would have you believe, my sons, that the same Justice which punishes
sin may also most graciously forgive it, and that no ban is so heavy
but that by prayer and repentance it may be removed. Learn then from
this story not to fear the fruits of the past, but rather to be
circumspect in the future, that those foul passions whereby our family
has suffered so grievously may not again be loosed to our undoing. 

"Know then that in the time of the Great Rebellion ( the history of
which by the learned Lord Clarendon I most earnestly commend to your
attention ) this Manor of Baskerville was held by Hugo of that name,
nor can it be gainsaid that he was a most wild, profane, and godless
man. This, in truth, his neighbours might have pardoned, seeing that
saints have never flourished in those parts, but there was in him a
certain wanton and cruel humour which made his name a byword through
the West. It chanced that this Hugo came to love ( if, indeed, so dark
a passion may be known under so bright a name ) the daughter of a
yeoman who held lands near the Baskerville estate. But the young
maiden, being discreet and of good repute, would ever avoid him, for
