
"That, and a deal more. I tell you, Watson, I've only known her these
few weeks, but from the first I just felt that she was made for me, and
she, too -- she was happy when she was with me, and that I'll swear.
There's a light in a woman's eyes that speaks louder than words. But he
has never let us get together and it was only to-day for the first time
that I saw a chance of having a few words with her alone. She was glad
to meet me, but when she did it was not love that she would talk about,
and she wouldn't have let me talk about it either if she could have
stopped it. She kept coming back to it that this was a place of danger,
and that she would never be happy until I had left it. I told her that
since I had seen her I was in no hurry to leave it, and that if she
really wanted me to go, the only way to work it was for her to arrange
to go with me. With that I offered in as many words to marry her, but
before she could answer, down came this brother of hers, running at us
with a face on him like a madman. He was just white with rage, and
those light eyes of his were blazing with fury. What was I doing with
the lady? How dared I offer her attentions which were distasteful to
her? Did I think that because I was a baronet I could do what I liked?
If he had not been her brother I should have known better how to answer
him. As it was I told him that my feelings towards his sister were such
as I was not ashamed of, and that I hoped that she might honour me by
becoming my wife. That seemed to make the matter no better, so then I
lost my temper too, and I answered him rather more hotly than I should
perhaps, considering that she was standing by. So it ended by his going
off with her, as you saw, and here am I as badly puzzled a man as any
in this county. Just tell me what it all means, Watson, and I'll owe
you more than ever I can hope to pay." 

I tried one or two explanations, but, indeed, I was completely puzzled
myself. Our friend's title, his fortune, his age, his character, and
his appearance are all in his favour, and I know nothing against him
unless it be this dark fate which runs in his family. That his advances
should be rejected so brusquely without any reference to the lady's own
wishes and that the lady should accept the situation without protest is
very amazing. However, our conjectures were set at rest by a visit from
Stapleton himself that very afternoon. He had come to offer apologies
for his rudeness of the morning, and after a long private interview
with Sir Henry in his study the upshot of their conversation was that
the breach is quite healed, and that we are to dine at Merripit House
next Friday as a sign of it. 

"I don't say now that he isn't a crazy man," said Sir Henry "I can't
forget the look in his eyes when he ran at me this morning, but I must
allow that no man could make a more handsome apology than he has done." 

"Did he give any explanation of his conduct?" 

"His sister is everything in his life, he says. That is natural enough,
and I am glad that he should understand her value. They have always
been together, and according to his account he has been a very lonely
man with only her as a companion, so that the thought of losing her was
really terrible to him. He had not understood, he said, that I was
becoming attached to her, but when he saw with his own eyes that it was
really so, and that she might be taken away from him, it gave him such
a shock that for a time he was not responsible for what he said or did.
He was very sorry for all that had passed, and he recognized how
foolish and how selfish it was that he should imagine that he could
hold a beautiful woman like his sister to himself for her whole life.
If she had to leave him he had rather it was to a neighbour like myself
