so regular that it might have seemed impassive were it not for the
sensitive mouth and the beautiful dark, eager eyes. With her perfect
figure and elegant dress she was, indeed, a strange apparition upon a
lonely moorland path. Her eyes were on her brother as I turned, and
then she quickened her pace towards me. I had raised my hat and was
about to make some explanatory remark when her own words turned all my
thoughts into a new channel. 

"Go back!" she said. "Go straight back to London, instantly." 

I could only stare at her in stupid surprise. Her eyes blazed at me,
and she tapped the ground impatiently with her foot. 

"Why should I go back?" I asked. 

"I cannot explain." She spoke in a low, eager voice, with a curious
lisp in her utterance. "But for God's sake do what I ask you. Go back
and never set foot upon the moor again." 

"But I have only just come." 

"Man, man!" she cried. "Can you not tell when a warning is for your own
good? Go back to London! Start to-night! Get away from this place at
all costs! Hush, my brother is coming! Not a word of what I have said.
Would you mind getting that orchid for me among the mare's-tails
yonder? We are very rich in orchids on the moor, though, of course, you
are rather late to see the beauties of the place." 

Stapleton had abandoned the chase and came back to us breathing hard
and flushed with his exertions. 

"Halloa, Beryl!" said he, and it seemed to me that the tone of his
greeting was not altogether a cordial one. 

"Well, Jack, you are very hot." 

"Yes, I was chasing a Cyclopides. He is very rare and seldom found in
the late autumn. What a pity that I should have missed him!" He spoke
unconcernedly, but his small light eyes glanced incessantly from the
girl to me. 

"You have introduced yourselves, I can see." 

"Yes. I was telling Sir Henry that it was rather late for him to see
the true beauties of the moor." 

"Why, who do you think this is?" 

"I imagine that it must be Sir Henry Baskerville." 

"No, no," said I. "Only a humble commoner, but his friend. My name is
Dr. Watson." 

A flush of vexation passed over her expressive face. "We have been
talking at cross purposes," said she. 

"Why, you had not very much time for talk," her brother remarked with
the same questioning eyes. 

"I talked as if Dr. Watson were a resident instead of being merely a
