down the walls and hung like a black canopy above him. Barrymore had
returned from taking our luggage to our rooms. He stood in front of us
now with the subdued manner of a well-trained servant. He was a
remarkable-looking man, tall, handsome, with a square black beard and
pale, distinguished features. 

"Would you wish dinner to be served at once, sir?" 

"Is it ready?" 

"In a very few minutes, sir. You will find hot water in your rooms. My
wife and I will be happy, Sir Henry, to stay with you until you have
made your fresh arrangements, but you will understand that under the
new conditions this house will require a considerable staff." 

"What new conditions?" 

"I only meant, sir, that Sir Charles led a very retired life, and we
were able to look after his wants. You would, naturally, wish to have
more company, and so you will need changes in your household." 

"Do you mean that your wife and you wish to leave?" 

"Only when it is quite convenient to you, sir." 

"But your family have been with us for several generations, have they
not? I should be sorry to begin my life here by breaking an old family
connection." 

I seemed to discern some signs of emotion upon the butler's white face. 

"I feel that also, sir, and so does my wife. But to tell the truth,
sir, we were both very much attached to Sir Charles and his death gave
us a shock and made these surroundings very painful to us. I fear that
we shall never again be easy in our minds at Baskerville Hall." 

"But what do you intend to do?" 

"I have no doubt, sir, that we shall succeed in establishing ourselves
in some business. Sir Charles's generosity has given us the means to do
so. And now, sir, perhaps I had best show you to your rooms." 

A square balustraded gallery ran round the top of the old hall,
approached by a double stair. From this central point two long
corridors extended the whole length of the building, from which all the
bedrooms opened. My own was in the same wing as Baskerville's and
almost next door to it. These rooms appeared to be much more modern
than the central part of the house, and the bright paper and numerous
candles did something to remove the sombre impression which our arrival
had left upon my mind. 

But the dining-room which opened out of the hall was a place of shadow
and gloom. It was a long chamber with a step separating the dais where
the family sat from the lower portion reserved for their dependents. At
one end a minstrel's gallery overlooked it. Black beams shot across
above our heads, with a smoke-darkened ceiling beyond them. With rows
of flaring torches to light it up, and the colour and rude hilarity of
an old-time banquet, it might have softened; but now, when two
black-clothed gentlemen sat in the little circle of light thrown by a
shaded lamp, one's voice became hushed and one's spirit subdued. A dim
