common quality, grayish in colour. The address, "Sir Henry Baskerville,
Northumberland Hotel," was printed in rough characters; the post-mark
"Charing Cross," and the date of posting the preceding evening. 

"Who knew that you were going to the Northumberland Hotel?" asked
Holmes, glancing keenly across at our visitor. 

"No one could have known. We only decided after I met Dr. Mortimer." 

"But Dr. Mortimer was no doubt already stopping there?" 

"No, I had been staying with a friend," said the doctor. "There was no
possible indication that we intended to go to this hotel." 

"Hum! Someone seems to be very deeply interested in your movements."
Out of the envelope he took a half-sheet of foolscap paper folded into
four. This he opened and spread flat upon the table. Across the middle
of it a single sentence had been formed by the expedient of pasting
printed words upon it. It ran: 

As you value your life or your reason keep away from the moor. 

The word "moor" only was printed in ink. 

"Now," said Sir Henry Baskerville, "perhaps you will tell me, Mr.
Holmes, what in thunder is the meaning of that, and who it is that
takes so much interest in my affairs?" 

"What do you make of it, Dr. Mortimer? You must allow that there is
nothing supernatural about this, at any rate?" 

"No, sir, but it might very well come from someone who was convinced
that the business is supernatural." 

"What business?" asked Sir Henry sharply. "It seems to me that all you
gentlemen know a great deal more than I do about my own affairs." 

"You shall share our knowledge before you leave this room, Sir Henry. I
promise you that," said Sherlock Holmes. "We will confine ourselves for
the present with your permission to this very interesting document,
which must have been put together and posted yesterday evening. Have
you yesterday's Times, Watson?" 

"It is here in the corner." 

"Might I trouble you for it -- the inside page, please, with the
leading articles?" He glanced swiftly over it, running his eyes up and
down the columns. "Capital article this on free trade. Permit me to
give you an extract from it. 

"You may be cajoled into imagining that your own special trade or your
own industry will be encouraged by a protective tariff, but it stands
to reason that such legislation must in the long run keep away wealth
from the country, diminish the value of our imports, and lower the
general conditions of life in this island. 

"What do you think of that, Watson?" cried Holmes in high glee, rubbing
his hands together with satisfaction. "Don't you think that is an
admirable sentiment?" 

