what he wanted all day and ask no questions. I was glad enough to
agree. First we drove down to the Northumberland Hotel and waited there
until two gentlemen came out and took a cab from the rank. We followed
their cab until it pulled up somewhere near here." 

"This very door," said Holmes. 

"Well, I couldn't be sure of that, but I dare say my fare knew all
about it. We pulled up halfway down the street and waited an hour and a
half. Then the two gentlemen passed us, walking, and we followed down
Baker Street and along -- " 

"I know," said Holmes. 

"Until we got three-quarters down Regent Street. Then my gentleman
threw up the trap, and he cried that I should drive right away to
Waterloo Station as hard as I could go. I whipped up the mare and we
were there under the ten minutes. Then he paid up his two guineas, like
a good one, and away he went into the station. Only just as he was
leaving he turned round and he said: "It might interest you to know
that you have been driving Mr. Sherlock Holmes." That's how I come to
know the name." 

"I see. And you saw no more of him?" 

"Not after he went into the station." 

"And how would you describe Mr. Sherlock Holmes?" 

The cabman scratched his head. "Well, he wasn't altogether such an easy
gentleman to describe. I'd put him at forty years of age, and he was of
a middle height, two or three inches shorter than you, sir. He was
dressed like a toff, and he had a black beard, cut square at the end,
and a pale face. I don't know as I could say more than that." 

"Colour of his eyes?" 

"No, I can't say that." 

"Nothing more that you can remember?" 

"No, sir; nothing." 

"Well, then, here is your half-sovereign. There's another one waiting
for you if you can bring any more information. Good-night!" 

"Good-night, sir, and thank you!" 

John Clayton departed chuckling, and Holmes turned to me with a shrug
of his shoulders and a rueful smile. 

"Snap goes our third thread, and we end where we began," said he. "The
cunning rascal! He knew our number, knew that Sir Henry Baskerville had
consulted me, spotted who I was in Regent Street, conjectured that I
had got the number of the cab and would lay my hands on the driver, and
so sent back this audacious message. I tell you, Watson, this time we
have got a foeman who is worthy of our steel. I've been checkmated in
London. I can only wish you better luck in Devonshire. But I'm not easy
in my mind about it." 

