therefore, and Sir Henry did the same. At the same moment the convict
screamed out a curse at us and hurled a rock which splintered up
against the boulder which had sheltered us. I caught one glimpse of his
short, squat, strongly built figure as he sprang to his feet and turned
to run. At the same moment by a lucky chance the moon broke through the
clouds. We rushed over the brow of the hill, and there was our man
running with great speed down the other side, springing over the stones
in his way with the activity of a mountain goat. A lucky long shot of
my revolver might have crippled him, but I had brought it only to
defend myself if attacked and not to shoot an unarmed man who was
running away. 

We were both swift runners and in fairly good training, but we soon
found that we had no chance of overtaking him. We saw him for a long
time in the moonlight until he was only a small speck moving swiftly
among the boulders upon the side of a distant hill. We ran and ran
until we were completely blown, but the space between us grew ever
wider. Finally we stopped and sat panting on two rocks, while we
watched him disappearing in the distance. 

And it was at this moment that there occurred a most strange and
unexpected thing. We had risen from our rocks and were turning to go
home, having abandoned the hopeless chase. The moon was low upon the
right, and the jagged pinnacle of a granite tor stood up against the
lower curve of its silver disc. There, outlined as black as an ebony
statue on that shining background, I saw the figure of a man upon the
tor. Do not think that it was a delusion, Holmes. I assure you that I
have never in my life seen anything more clearly. As far as I could
judge, the figure was that of a tall, thin man. He stood with his legs
a little separated, his arms folded, his head bowed, as if he were
brooding over that enormous wilderness of peat and granite which lay
before him. He might have been the very spirit of that terrible place.
It was not the convict. This man was far from the place where the
latter had disappeared. Besides, he was a much taller man. With a cry
of surprise I pointed him out to the baronet, but in the instant during
which I had turned to grasp his arm the man was gone. There was the
sharp pinnacle of granite still cutting the lower edge of the moon, but
its peak bore no trace of that silent and motionless figure. 

I wished to go in that direction and to search the tor, but it was some
distance away. The baronet's nerves were still quivering from that cry,
which recalled the dark story of his family, and he was not in the mood
for fresh adventures. He had not seen this lonely man upon the tor and
could not feel the thrill which his strange presence and his commanding
attitude had given to me. "A warder, no doubt," said he. "The moor has
been thick with them since this fellow escaped." Well, perhaps his
explanation may be the right one, but I should like to have some
further proof of it. To-day we mean to communicate to the Princetown
people where they should look for their missing man, but it is hard
lines that we have not actually had the triumph of bringing him back as
our own prisoner. Such are the adventures of last night, and you must
acknowledge, my dear Holmes, that I have done you very well in the
matter of a report. Much of what I tell you is no doubt quite
irrelevant, but still I feel that it is best that I should let you have
all the facts and leave you to select for yourself those which will be
of most service to you in helping you to your conclusions. We are
certainly making some progress. So far as the Barrymores go we have
found the motive of their actions, and that has cleared up the
situation very much. But the moor with its mysteries and its strange
inhabitants remains as inscrutable as ever. Perhaps in my next I may be
