
                            A Retrospection.

It was the end of November, and Holmes and I sat, upon a raw and foggy
night, on either side of a blazing fire in our sitting-room in Baker
Street. Since the tragic upshot of our visit to Devonshire he had been
engaged in two affairs of the utmost importance, in the first of which
he had exposed the atrocious conduct of Colonel Upwood in connection
with the famous card scandal of the Nonpareil Club, while in the second
he had defended the unfortunate Mme. Montpensier from the charge of
murder which hung over her in connection with the death of her
step-daughter, Mlle. Carere, the young lady who, as it will be
remembered, was found six months later alive and married in New York.
My friend was in excellent spirits over the success which had attended
a succession of difficult and important cases, so that I was able to
induce him to discuss the details of the Baskerville mystery. I had
waited patiently for the opportunity for I was aware that he would
never permit cases to overlap, and that his clear and logical mind
would not be drawn from its present work to dwell upon memories of the
past. Sir Henry and Dr. Mortimer were, however, in London, on their way
to that long voyage which had been recommended for the restoration of
his shattered nerves. They had called upon us that very afternoon, so
that it was natural that the subject should come up for discussion. 

"The whole course of events," said Holmes, "from the point of view of
the man who called himself Stapleton was simple and direct, although to
us, who had no means in the beginning of knowing the motives of his
actions and could only learn part of the facts, it all appeared
exceedingly complex. I have had the advantage of two conversations with
Mrs. Stapleton, and the case has now been so entirely cleared up that I
am not aware that there is anything which has remained a secret to us.
You will find a few notes upon the matter under the heading B in my
indexed list of cases." 

"Perhaps you would kindly give me a sketch of the course of events from
memory." 

"Certainly, though I cannot guarantee that I carry all the facts in my
mind. Intense mental concentration has a curious way of blotting out
what has passed. The barrister who has his case at his fingers' ends
and is able to argue with an expert upon his own subject finds that a
week or two of the courts will drive it all out of his head once more.
So each of my cases displaces the last, and Mlle. Carere has blurred my
recollection of Baskerville Hall. To-morrow some other little problem
may be submitted to my notice which will in turn dispossess the fair
French lady and the infamous Upwood. So far as the case of the hound
goes, however, I will give you the course of events as nearly as I can,
and you will suggest anything which I may have forgotten. 

"My inquiries show beyond all question that the family portrait did not
lie, and that this fellow was indeed a Baskerville. He was a son of
that Rodger Baskerville, the younger brother of Sir Charles, who fled
with a sinister reputation to South America, where he was said to have
died unmarried. He did, as a matter of fact, marry, and had one child,
this fellow, whose real name is the same as his father's. He married
Beryl Garcia, one of the beauties of Costa Rica, and, having purloined
a considerable sum of public money, he changed his name to Vandeleur
and fled to England, where he established a school in the east of
Yorkshire. His reason for attempting this special line of business was
that he had struck up an acquaintance with a consumptive tutor upon the
