secret. The probability was, therefore, that she was telling the truth,
or, at least, a part of the truth. I came away baffled and
disheartened. Once again I had reached that dead wall which seemed to
be built across every path by which I tried to get at the object of my
mission. And yet the more I thought of the lady's face and of her
manner the more I felt that something was being held back from me. Why
should she turn so pale? Why should she fight against every admission
until it was forced from her? Why should she have been so reticent at
the time of the tragedy? Surely the explanation of all this could not
be as innocent as she would have me believe. For the moment I could
proceed no farther in that direction, but must turn back to that other
clue which was to be sought for among the stone huts upon the moor. 

And that was a most vague direction. I realized it as I drove back and
noted how hill after hill showed traces of the ancient people.
Barrymore's only indication had been that the stranger lived in one of
these abandoned huts, and many hundreds of them are scattered
throughout the length and breadth of the moor. But I had my own
experience for a guide since it had shown me the man himself standing
upon the summit of the Black Tor. That, then, should be the centre of
my search. From there I should explore every hut upon the moor until I
lighted upon the right one. If this man were inside it I should find
out from his own lips, at the point of my revolver if necessary, who he
was and why he had dogged us so long. He might slip away from us in the
crowd of Regent Street, but it would puzzle him to do so upon the
lonely moor. On the other hand, if I should find the hut and its tenant
should not be within it I must remain there, however long the vigil,
until he returned. Holmes had missed him in London. It would indeed be
a triumph for me if I could run him to earth where my master had
failed. 

Luck had been against us again and again in this inquiry, but now at
last it came to my aid. And the messenger of good fortune was none
other than Mr. Frankland, who was standing, gray-whiskered and
red-faced, outside the gate of bis garden, which opened on to the
highroad along which I travelled. 

"Good-day, Dr. Watson," cried he with unwonted good humour, "you must
really give your horses a rest and come in to have a glass of wine and
to congratulate me." 

My feelings towards him were very far from being friendly after what I
had heard of his treatment of his daughter, but I was anxious to send
Perkins and the wagonette home, and the opportunity was a good one. I
alighted and sent a message to Sir Henry that I should walk over in
time for dinner. Then I followed Frankland into his dining-room. 

"It is a great day for me, sir -- one of the red-letter days of my
life," he cried with many chuckles. "I have brought off a double event.
I mean to teach them in these parts that law is law, and that there is
a man here who does not fear to invoke it. I have established a right
of way through the centre of old Middleton's park, slap across it, sir,
within a hundred yards of his own front door. What do you think of
that? We'll teach these magnates that they cannot ride roughshod over
the rights of the commoners, confound them! And I've closed the wood
where the Fernworthy folk used to picnic. These infernal people seem to
think that there are no rights of property, and that they can swarm
where they like with their papers and their bottles. Both cases decided
Dr. Watson, and both in my favour. I haven't had such a day since I had
Sir John Morland for trespass because he shot in his own warren." 
