"Are you armed, Lestrade?" 

The little detective smiled. 

"As long as I have my trousers I have a hip-pocket, and as long as I
have my hip-pocket I have something in it." 

"Good! My friend and I are also ready for emergencies." 

"You're mighty close about this affair, Mr. Holmes. What's the game
now?" 

"A waiting game." 

"My word, it does not seem a very cheerful place," said the detective
with a shiver, glancing round him at the gloomy slopes of the hill and
at the huge lake of fog which lay over the Grimpen Mire. "I see the
lights of a house ahead of us." 

"That is Merripit House and the end of our journey. I must request you
to walk on tiptoe and not to talk above a whisper." 

We moved cautiously along the track as if we were bound for the house,
but Holmes halted us when we were about two hundred yards from it. 

"This will do," said he. "These rocks upon the right make an admirable
screen." 

"We are to wait here?" 

"Yes, we shall make our little ambush here. Get into this hollow,
Lestrade. You have been inside the house, have you not, Watson? Can you
tell the position of the rooms? What are those latticed windows at this
end?" 

"I think they are the kitchen windows." 

"And the one beyond, which shines so brightly?" 

"That is certainly the dining-room." 

"The blinds are up. You know the lie of the land best. Creep forward
quietly and see what they are doing -- but for heaven's sake don't let
them know that they are watched!" 

I tiptoed down the path and stooped behind the low wall which
surrounded the stunted orchard. Creeping in its shadow I reached a
point whence I could look straight through the uncurtained window. 

There were only two men in the room, Sir Henry and Stapleton. They sat
with their profiles towards me on either side of the round table. Both
of them were smoking cigars, and coffee and wine were in front of them.
Stapleton was talking with animation, but the baronet looked pale and
distrait. Perhaps the thought of that lonely walk across the ill-omened
moor was weighing heavily upon his mind. 

As I watched them Stapleton rose and left the room, while Sir Henry
filled his glass again and leaned back in his chair, puffing at his
cigar. I heard the creak of a door and the crisp sound of boots upon
gravel. The steps passed along the path on the other side of the wall
