she feared his evil name. So it came to pass that one Michaelmas this
Hugo, with five or six of his idle and wicked companions, stole down
upon the farm and carried off the maiden, her father and brothers being
from home, as he well knew. When they had brought her to the Hall the
maiden was placed in an upper chamber, while Hugo and his friends sat
down to a long carouse, as was their nightly custom. Now, the poor lass
upstairs was like to have her wits turned at the singing and shouting
and terrible oaths which came up to her from below, for they say that
the words used by Hugo Baskerville, when he was in wine, were such as
might blast the man who said them. At last in the stress of her fear
she did that which might have daunted the bravest or most active man,
for by the aid of the growth of ivy which covered ( and still covers )
the south wall she came down from under the eaves, and so homeward
across the moor, there being three leagues betwixt the Hall and her
father's farm. 

"It chanced that some little time later Hugo left his guests to carry
food and drink -- with other worse things, perchance -- to his captive,
and so found the cage empty and the bird escaped. Then, as it would
seem, he became as one that hath a devil, for, rushing down the stairs
into the dining-hall, he sprang upon the great table, flagons and
trenchers flying before him, and he cried aloud before all the company
that he would that very night render his body and soul to the Powers of
Evil if he might but overtake the wench. And while the revellers stood
aghast at the fury of the man, one more wicked or, it may be, more
drunken than the rest, cried out that they should put the hounds upon
her Whereat Hugo ran from the house, crying to his grooms that they
should saddle his mare and unkennel the pack, and giving the hounds a
kerchief of the maid's, he swung them to the line, and so off full cry
in the moonlight over the moor. 

"Now, for some space the revellers stood agape, unable to understand
all that had been done in such haste. But anon their bemused wits awoke
to the nature of the deed which was like to be done upon the moorlands.
Everything was now in an uproar, some calling for their pistols, some
for their horses, and some for another flask of wine. But at length
some sense came back to their crazed minds, and the whole of them,
thirteen in number, took horse and started in pursuit. The moon shone
clear above them, and they rode swiftly abreast, taking that course
which the maid must needs have taken if she were to reach her own home. 

"They had gone a mile or two when they passed one of the night
shepherds upon the moorlands, and they cried to him to know if he had
seen the hunt. And the man, as the story goes, was so crazed with fear
that he could scarce speak, but at last he said that he had indeed seen
the unhappy maiden, with the hounds upon her track. "But I have seen
more than that," said he, "for Hugo Baskerville passed me upon his
black mare, and there ran mute behind him such a hound of hell as God
forbid should ever be at my heels." So the drunken squires cursed the
shepherd and rode onward. But soon their skins turned cold, for there
came a galloping across the moor, and the black mare, dabbled with
white froth, went past with trailing bridle and empty saddle. Then the
revellers rode close together, for a great fear was on them, but they
still followed over the moor, though each, had he been alone, would
have been right glad to have turned his horse's head. Riding slowly in
this fashion they came at last upon the hounds. These, though known for
their valour and their breed, were whimpering in a cluster at the head
of a deep dip or goyal, as we call it, upon the moor, some slinking
away and some, with starting hackles and staring eyes, gazing down the
narrow valley before them. 
