"I have not an idea." 

"A spy?" 

"Well, it was evident from what we have heard that Baskerville has been
very closely shadowed by someone since he has been in town. How else
could it be known so quickly that it was the Northumberland Hotel which
he had chosen? If they had followed him the first day I argued that
they would follow him also the second. You may have observed that I
twice strolled over to the window while Dr. Mortimer was reading his
legend." 

"Yes, I remember." 

"I was looking out for loiterers in the street, but I saw none. We are
dealing with a clever man, Watson. This matter cuts very deep, and
though I have not finally made up my mind whether it is a benevolent or
a malevolent agency which is in touch with us, I am conscious always of
power and design. When our friends left I at once followed them in the
hopes of marking down their invisible attendant. So wily was he that he
had not trusted himself upon foot, but he had availed himself of a cab
so that he could loiter behind or dash past them and so escape their
notice. His method had the additional advantage that if they were to
take a cab he was all ready to follow them. It has, however, one
obvious disadvantage." 

"It puts him in the power of the cabman." 

"Exactly." 

"What a pity we did not get the number!" 

"My dear Watson, clumsy as I have been, you surely do not seriously
imagine that I neglected to get the number? No. 2704 is our man. But
that is no use to us for the moment." 

"I fail to see how you could have done more." 

"On observing the cab I should have instantly turned and walked in the
other direction. I should then at my leisure have hired a second cab
and followed the first at a respectful distance, or, better still, have
driven to the Northumberland Hotel and waited there. When our unknown
had followed Baskerville home we should have had the opportunity of
playing his own game upon himself and seeing where he made for. As it
is, by an indiscreet eagerness, which was taken advantage of with
extraordinary quickness and energy by our opponent, we have betrayed
ourselves and lost our man." 

We had been sauntering slowly down Regent Street during this
conversation, and Dr. Mortimer, with his companion, had long vanished
in front of us. 

"There is no object in our following them," said Holmes. "The shadow
has departed and will not return. We must see what further cards we
have in our hands and play them with decision. Could you swear to that
man's face within the cab?" 

"I could swear only to the beard." 

"And so could I -- from which I gather that in all probability it was a
