relieve the tax-payer of a burden." 

"But how about the chance of his holding someone up before he goes?" 

"He would not do anything so mad, sir. We have provided him with all
that he can want. To commit a crime would be to show where he was
hiding." 

"That is true," said Sir Henry. "Well, Barrymore -- " 

"God bless you, sir, and thank you from my heart! It would have killed
my poor wife had he been taken again." 

"I guess we are aiding and abetting a felony, Watson? But, after what
we have heard I don't feel as if I could give the man up, so there is
an end of it. All right, Barrymore, you can go." 

With a few broken words of gratitude the man turned, but he hesitated
and then came back. 

"You've been so kind to us, sir, that I should like to do the best I
can for you in return. I know something, Sir Henry, and perhaps I
should have said it before, but it was long after the inquest that I
found it out. I've never breathed a word about it yet to mortal man.
It's about poor Sir Charles's death." 

The baronet and I were both upon our feet. "Do you know how he died?" 

"No, sir, I don't know that." 

"What then?" 

"I know why he was at the gate at that hour. It was to meet a woman." 

"To meet a woman! He?" 

"Yes, sir." 

"And the woman's name?" 

"I can't give you the name, sir, but I can give you the initials. Her
initials were L. L." 

"How do you know this, Barrymore?" 

"Well, Sir Henry, your uncle had a letter that morning. He had usually
a great many letters, for he was a public man and well known for his
kind heart, so that everyone who was in trouble was glad to turn to
him. But that morning, as it chanced, there was only this one letter,
so I took the more notice of it. It was from Coombe Tracey, and it was
addressed in a woman's hand." 

"Well?" 

"Well, sir, I thought no more of the matter, and never would have done
had it not been for my wife. Only a few weeks ago she was cleaning out
Sir Charles's study -- it had never been touched since his death -- and
she found the ashes of a burned letter in the back of the grate. The
greater part of it was charred to pieces, but one little slip, the end
of a page, hung together, and the writing could still be read, though
