fall into Stapleton's hands her own life would not be safe. Eventually,
as we know, she adopted the expedient of cutting out the words which
would form the message, and addressing the letter in a disguised hand.
It reached the baronet, and gave him the first warning of his danger. 

"It was very essential for Stapleton to get some article of Sir Henry's
attire so that, in case he was driven to use the dog, he might always
have the means of setting him upon his track. With characteristic
promptness and audacity he set about this at once, and we cannot doubt
that the boots or chamber-maid of the hotel was well bribed to help him
in his design. By chance, however, the first boot which was procured
for him was a new one and, therefore, useless for his purpose. He then
had it returned and obtained another -- a most instructive incident,
since it proved conclusively to my mind that we were dealing with a
real hound, as no other supposition could explain this anxiety to
obtain an old boot and this indifference to a new one. The more outre
and grotesque an incident is the more carefully it deserves to be
examined, and the very point which appears to complicate a case is,
when duly considered and scientifically handled, the one which is most
likely to elucidate it. 

"Then we had the visit from our friends next morning, shadowed always
by Stapleton in the cab. From his knowledge of our rooms and of my
appearance, as well as from his general conduct, I am inclined to think
that Stapleton's career of crime has been by no means limited to this
single Baskerville affair. It is suggestive that during the last three
years there have been four considerable burglaries in the west country,
for none of which was any criminal ever arrested. The last of these, at
Folkestone Court, in May, was remarkable for the cold-blooded
pistolling of the page, who surprised the masked and solitary burglar.
I cannot doubt that Stapleton recruited his waning resources in this
fashion, and that for years he has been a desperate and dangerous man. 

"We had an example of his readiness of resource that morning when he
got away from us so successfully, and also of his audacity in sending
back my own name to me through the cabman. From that moment he
understood that I had taken over the case in London, and that therefore
there was no chance for him there. He returned to Dartmoor and awaited
the arrival of the baronet." 

"One moment!" said I. "You have, no doubt, described the sequence of
events correctly, but there is one point which you have left
unexplained. What became of the hound when its master was in London?" 

"I have given some attention to this matter and it is undoubtedly of
importance. There can be no question that Stapleton had a confidant,
though it is unlikely that he ever placed himself in his power by
sharing all his plans with him. There was an old manservant at Merripit
House, whose name was Anthony. His connection with the Stapletons can
be traced for several years, as far back as the schoolmastering days,
so that he must have been aware that his master and mistress were
really husband and wife. This man has disappeared and has escaped from
the country. It is suggestive that Anthony is not a common name in
England, while Antonio is so in all Spanish or Spanish-American
countries. The man, like Mrs. Stapleton herself, spoke good English,
but with a curious lisping accent. I have myself seen this old man
cross the Grimpen Mire by the path which Stapleton had marked out. It
is very probable, therefore, that in the absence of his master it was
he who cared for the hound, though he may never have known the purpose
for which the beast was used. 
