next election, has cast a gloom over the county. Though Sir Charles had
resided at Baskerville Hall for a comparatively short period his
amiability of character and extreme generosity had won the affection
and respect of all who had been brought into contact with him. In these
days of nouveaux riches it is refreshing to find a case where the scion
of an old county family which has fallen upon evil days is able to make
his own fortune and to bring it back with him to restore the fallen
grandeur of his line. Sir Charles, as is well known, made large sums of
money in South African speculation. More wise than those who go on
until the wheel turns against them, he realized his gains and returned
to England with them. It is only two years since he took up his
residence at Baskerville Hall, and it is common talk how large were
those schemes of reconstruction and improvement which have been
interrupted by his death. Being himself childless, it was his openly
expressed desire that the whole countryside should, within his own
lifetime, profit by his good fortune, and many will have personal
reasons for bewailing his untimely end. His generous donations to local
and county charities have been frequently chronicled in these columns. 

"The circumstances connected with the death of Sir Charles cannot be
said to have been entirely cleared up by the inquest, but at least
enough has been done to dispose of those rumours to which local
superstition has given rise. There is no reason whatever to suspect
foul play, or to imagine that death could be from any but natural
causes. Sir Charles was a widower, and a man who may be said to have
been in some ways of an eccentric habit of mind. In spite of his
considerable wealth he was simple in his personal tastes, and his
indoor servants at Baskerville Hall consisted of a married couple named
Barrymore, the husband acting as butler and the wife as housekeeper.
Their evidence, corroborated by that of several friends, tends to show
that Sir Charles's health has for some time been impaired, and points
especially to some affection of the heart, manifesting itself in
changes of colour, breathlessness, and acute attacks of nervous
depression. Dr. James Mortimer, the friend and medical attendant of the
deceased, has given evidence to the same effect. 

"The facts of the case are simple. Sir Charles Baskerville was in the
habit every night before going to bed of walking down the famous yew
alley of Baskerville Hall. The evidence of the Barrymores shows that
this had been his custom. On the fourth of May Sir Charles had declared
his intention of starting next day for London, and had ordered
Barrymore to prepare his luggage. That night he went out as usual for
his nocturnal walk, in the course of which he was in the habit of
smoking a cigar. He never returned. At twelve o'clock Barrymore,
finding the hall door still open, became alarmed, and, lighting a
lantern, went in search of his master. The day had been wet, and Sir
Charles's footmarks were easily traced down the alley. Halfway down
this walk there is a gate which leads out on to the moor. There were
indications that Sir Charles had stood for some little time here. He
then proceeded down the alley, and it was at the far end of it that his
body was discovered. One fact which has not been explained is the
statement of Barrymore that his master's footprints altered their
character from the time that he passed the moor-gate, and that he
appeared from thence onward to have been walking upon his toes. One
Murphy, a gipsy horse-dealer, was on the moor at no great distance at
the time, but he appears by his own confession to have been the worse
for drink. He declares that he heard cries but is unable to state from
what direction they came. No signs of violence were to be discovered
upon Sir Charles's person, and though the doctor's evidence pointed to
an almost incredible facial distortion -- so great that Dr. Mortimer
