full knowledge of the case." 

"Well, I am glad from my heart that you are here, for indeed the
responsibility and the mystery were both becoming too much for my
nerves. But how in the name of wonder did you come here, and what have
you been doing? I thought that you were in Baker Street working out
that case of blackmailing." 

"That was what I wished you to think." 

"Then you use me, and yet do not trust me!" I cried with some
bitterness. "I think that I have deserved better at your hands,
Holmes." 

"My dear fellow, you have been invaluable to me in this as in many
other cases, and I beg that you will forgive me if I have seemed to
play a trick upon you. In truth, it was partly for your own sake that I
did it, and it was my appreciation of the danger which you ran which
led me to come down and examine the matter for myself. Had I been with
Sir Henry and you it is confident that my point of view would have been
the same as yours, and my presence would have warned our very
formidable opponents to be on their guard. As it is, I have been able
to get about as I could not possibly have done had I been living in the
Hall, and I remain an unknown factor in the business, ready to throw in
all my weight at a critical moment." 

"But why keep me in the dark?" 

"For you to know could not have helped us and might possibly have led
to my discovery. You would have wished to tell me something, or in your
kindness you would have brought me out some comfort or other, and so an
unnecessary risk would be run. I brought Cartwright down with me -- you
remember the little chap at the express office -- and he has seen after
my simple wants: a loaf of bread and a clean collar. What does man want
more? He has given me an extra pair of eyes upon a very active pair of
feet, and both have been invaluable." 

"Then my reports have all been wasted!" -- My voice trembled as I
recalled the pains and the pride with which I had composed them. 

Holmes took a bundle of papers from his pocket. 

"Here are your reports, my dear fellow, and very well thumbed, I assure
you. I made excellent arrangements, and they are only delayed one day
upon their way. I must compliment you exceedingly upon the zeal and the
intelligence which you have shown over an extraordinarily difficult
case." 

I was still rather raw over the deception which had been practised upon
me, but the warmth of Holmes's praise drove my anger from my mind. I
felt also in my heart that he was right in what he said and that it was
really best for our purpose that I should not have known that he was
upon the moor. 

"That's better," said he, seeing the shadow rise from my face. "And now
tell me the result of your visit to Mrs. Laura Lyons -- it was not
difficult for me to guess that it was to see her that you had gone, for
I am already aware that she is the one person in Coombe Tracey who
might be of service to us in the matter. In fact, if you had not gone
to-day it is exceedingly probable that I should have gone to-morrow." 
