was on foot. That would have accounted for his stealthy movements and
also for the uneasiness of his wife. The man is a striking-looking
fellow, very well equipped to steal the heart of a country girl, so
that this theory seemed to have something to support it. That opening
of the door which I had heard after I had returned to my room might
mean that he had gone out to keep some clandestine appointment. So I
reasoned with myself in the morning, and I tell you the direction of my
suspicions, however much the result may have shown that they were
unfounded. 

But whatever the true explanation of Barrymore's movements might be, I
felt that the responsibility of keeping them to myself until I could
explain them was more than I could bear. I had an interview with the
baronet in his study after breakfast, and I told him all that I had
seen. He was less surprised than I had expected. 

"I knew that Barrymore walked about nights, and I had a mind to speak
to him about it," said he. "Two or three times I have heard his steps
in the passage, coming and going, just about the hour you name." 

"Perhaps then he pays a visit every night to that particular window," I
suggested. 

"Perhaps he does. If so, we should be able to shadow him and see what
it is that he is after. I wonder what your friend Holmes would do if he
were here." 

"I believe that he would do exactly what you now suggest," said I. "He
would follow Barrymore and see what he did." 

"Then we shall do it together." 

"But surely he would hear us." 

"The man is rather deaf, and in any case we must take our chance of
that. We'll sit up in my room to-night and wait until he passes." Sir
Henry rubbed his hands with pleasure, and it was evident that he hailed
the adventure as a relief to his somewhat quiet life upon the moor. 

The baronet has been in communication with the architect who prepared
the plans for Sir Charles, and with a contractor from London, so that
we may expect great changes to begin here soon. There have been
decorators and furnishers up from Plymouth, and it is evident that our
friend has large ideas and means to spare no pains or expense to
restore the grandeur of his family. When the house is renovated and
refurnished, all that he will need will be a wife to make it complete.
Between ourselves there are pretty clear signs that this will not be
wanting if the lady is willing, for I have seldom seen a man more
infatuated with a woman than he is with our beautiful neighbour, Miss
Stapleton. And yet the course of true love does not run quite as
smoothly as one would under the circumstances expect. To-day, for
example, its surface was broken by a very unexpected ripple, which has
caused our friend considerable perplexity and annoyance. 

After the conversation which I have quoted about Barrymore, Sir Henry
put on his hat and prepared to go out. As a matter of course I did the
same. 

"What, are you coming, Watson?" he asked, looking at me in a curious
way. 
